NGFW Getting Started
docs.paloaltonetworks.com
Contact Information
Corporate Headquarters:
Palo Alto Networks
3000 Tannery Way
Santa Clara, CA 95054
www.paloaltonetworks.com/company/contact-support
About the Documentation
• For the most recent version of this guide or for access to related documentation, visit the Technical
Documentation portal docs.paloaltonetworks.com.
• To search for a specific topic, go to our search page docs.paloaltonetworks.com/search.html.
• Have feedback or questions for us? Leave a comment on any page in the portal, or write to us at
documentation@paloaltonetworks.com.
Copyright
Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
www.paloaltonetworks.com
© 2025-2025 Palo Alto Networks, Inc. Palo Alto Networks is a registered trademark of Palo
Alto Networks. A list of our trademarks can be found at www.paloaltonetworks.com/company/
trademarks.html. All other marks mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective companies.
Last Revised
December 4, 2025
NGFW Getting Started 2 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Table of Contents
Get Started with NGFWs.................................................................................5
Determine Your NGFW Management Strategy...................................................................6
Integrate NGFWs into Your Network.......................................................... 9
Considerations for Business Continuity.............................................................................. 10
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs...................... 11
Set Up Network Access for External Services...................................................................26
Cheat Sheet: Onboard NGFWs to Panorama or Strata Cloud Manager......................33
Onboarding NGFWs to Strata Cloud Manager...................................................... 33
Onboarding NGFWs to Panorama............................................................................ 33
Segment Your Network for a Reduced Attack Surface................................................... 35
Configure Interfaces and Zones.................................................................................35
Set Up a Basic Security Policy...............................................................................................41
Assess Network Traffic............................................................................................................48
Enable Free WildFire Fowarding on Your NGFW............................................................ 51
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices................................................55
Configure the Firewall General Settings............................................................................. 56
Configure the Management Interface Settings..................................................................58
Configure the Auxiliary Interface Settings..........................................................................61
Manage a Local Firewall Configuration............................................................................... 64
Manage Your NGFWs.....................................................................................67
Register Your NGFW............................................................................................................... 68
Create a New Support Account and Register an NGFW.....................................68
Register an NGFW........................................................................................................ 70
(Optional) Perform Day 1 Configuration..................................................................73
Register the NGFW Line Cards..................................................................................76
Manage Hardware Consumption.......................................................................................... 77
Decommission Your NGFW................................................................................................... 81
Update NGFWs Managed by Strata Cloud Manager.......................................................85
Create a Software Update Grouping Rule...............................................................85
Schedule Dynamic Content Updates........................................................................86
Schedule a Software Update...................................................................................... 89
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions................................................................93
Activate Subscription Licenses.............................................................................................. 98
What Happens When Licenses Expire?............................................................................ 100
Enhanced Application Logs for Palo Alto Networks Cloud Services..........................103
NGFW Getting Started 3 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Table of Contents
Cortex XDR...................................................................................................................103
IoT Security...................................................................................................................105
Best Practices for Getting Started with NGFWs...................................109
NGFW Getting Started 4 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Get Started with NGFWs
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
Palo Alto Networks Next-Generation Firewalls (NGFWs) implement a security architecture
that extends beyond traditional firewall capabilities. Traditional firewalls primarily filter traffic
based on port, protocol, and IP addresses, while Palo Alto Networks 's NGFWs use App-ID
technology to identify and control applications regardless of port, protocol, or encryption status.
This application-based approach enables for more precise security controls than port-based
methods, enabling administrators to create policy rules based on applications and user identities
rather than just network attributes.
The core functions include: App-ID technology, which identifies and controls applications
regardless of port, protocol, or encryption, moving beyond traditional firewall limitations. This
application awareness is seamlessly integrated into unified security policies that combine all
protection mechanisms into a single, streamlined rule base for simplified management. To
address the growing challenge of encrypted traffic, SSL/TLS decryption capabilities provide
visibility into threats hiding within encrypted communications. Advanced threat intelligence
and sandboxing through WildFire continuously protect against unknown malware and zeroday attacks in real-time, while URL filtering blocks access to malicious websites and enforces
acceptable use policies. Finally, integrated VPN connectivity ensures secure remote access for
today's distributed workforce. Together, these core features create a unified security platform
that provides unprecedented visibility, control, and protection across all network traffic.
Administrators have several options for managing Palo Alto Networks NGFWs, depending on
your network's deployment scale and technical requirements:
PAN-OS
Panorama
Strata Cloud Manager
For more information about the management styles available for your NGFWs, click here.
5
Get Started with NGFWs
Determine Your NGFW Management Strategy
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW Prerequisites are determined by your
management strategy of choice.
Palo Alto Networks provides three distinct management approaches for NGFWs, each designed
to address different operational requirements and network architectures.
Direct device management through the PAN-OS web interface offers administrators
granular control over an individual firewall's configurations, suitable for small deployments or
environments with limited devices.
Panorama provides centralized management capabilities as either a hardware appliance or virtual
machine, enabling security teams to implement consistent policy rules, collect unified logs, and
generate comprehensive reports across the entire NGFW infrastructure.
Strata Cloud Manager is a cloud-native management solution that eliminates the need for onpremises management infrastructure, offering similar centralized control while providing builtin scalability and simplified deployment for distributed networks. Each management option
maintains consistent security capabilities while offering different operational models to align
with an organization's existing infrastructure, technical resources, and security management
preferences.
While thinking about how you want to manage your NGFWs, you can begin the process of
integrating NGFWs into your network.
• PAN-OS
• Panorama
• Strata Cloud Manager
Determine Your Management Strategy (PAN-OS)
The PAN-OS web interface provides direct device management for individual NGFW, offering
administrators complete control through a browser-based console. This management approach
delivers immediate access to all NGFW functions without requiring additional infrastructure.
The interface is organized into logical sections including Dashboard, ACC (Application Command
Center), Policies, Objects, Network, Device, and Monitor, providing intuitive navigation for both
configuration and operational monitoring.
Key advantages include zero deployment overhead, immediate configuration changes without
synchronization delays, and direct access to hardware-specific settings. The PAN-OS web
interface is particularly suitable for small deployments, lab environments, or scenarios where
granular device-specific control is required. This management method enables administrators
to leverage the full functionality of the firewall without dependencies on external management
systems.
NGFW Getting Started 6 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Get Started with NGFWs
Determine Your Management Strategy (Panorama)
Panorama serves as an on-premises centralized management solution for organizations with
multiple NGFWs, available as either a dedicated hardware appliance or virtual machine. Its
hierarchical management model enables administrators to define shared policy rules that apply
across the entire NGFW estate while still enabling for device-specific configurations when
needed. Standout features include template stacks for standardizing network configurations,
device groups for organizing security policy rules, and consolidated logging that aggregates
security data across all Panorama managed devices.
Panorama excels in providing consistent rule enforcement, simplified compliance management,
and reduced administrative overhead in multidevice environments. The solution supports
role-based access control for distributed security teams and offers comprehensive change
management capabilities including commit previews and audit trails. Panorama is valuable for
organizations with regulatory requirements necessitating centralized logging or those maintaining
significant on-premises infrastructure.
Determine Your Management Strategy (Strata Cloud Manager)
Strata Cloud Manager represents a Palo Alto Networks cloud-native management platform,
offering centralized control of security infrastructure without requiring on-premises management
servers. This SaaS-based solution provides similar policy rule management capabilities to
Panorama but adds cloud-specific advantages including automatic scaling, continuous updates
without maintenance windows, and global accessibility. Standout features include simplified
deployment through Zero Touch Provisioning, integrated cloud-delivered security services, and
unified management of both physical and cloud-based security controls.
Strata Cloud Manager excels in managing distributed environments and supports hybrid
deployments spanning traditional data centers, branch offices, and multicloud environments.
The platform offers consumption-based licensing models that align costs with actual usage and
provides built-in high availability without additional infrastructure. This management option is
advantageous for organizations embracing cloud-first strategies, supporting remote workforces,
or seeking to reduce the operational complexity associated with maintaining management
infrastructure.
NGFW Getting Started 7 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Get Started with NGFWs
NGFW Getting Started 8 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Integrate NGFWs into Your
Network
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
All Palo Alto Networks NGFWs provide an out-of-band management port (MGT) that you
can use to perform the administrative functions. By using the MGT port, you separate the
management functions of the NGFW from the data processing functions, safeguarding access
to the NGFW, and enhancing performance. When using the web interface, you must perform
all initial configuration tasks from the MGT port even if you plan to use an in-band data port for
managing your NGFW going forward. This requirement applies whether you're setting up the
firewall for standalone operation or onboarding to Panorama or Strata Cloud Manager.
Some management tasks, such as retrieving licenses and updating the threat and application
signatures on the firewall require access to the internet. If you don’t want to enable external
access to your MGT port, you will need to either set up an in-band data port to provide access to
required external services (using service routes) or plan to manually upload updates regularly.
Don’t enable access to your management interface from the internet or from other
untrusted zones inside your enterprise security boundary. This applies whether you
use the dedicated management port (MGT) or you configured a data port as your
management interface. When integrating your firewall into your management network,
follow the Administrative best practices to ensure that you're securing administrative
access to your NGFWs and other security devices in a way that prevents successful
attacks.
After integrating the NGFWs into your network, learn how to perform the initial configuration
steps that are necessary to integrate a new NGFW into the management network and deploy it in
a basic security configuration.
The following topics describe how to integrate a single Palo Alto Networks NGFW into
your network. However, for redundancy, consider deploying a pair of NGFWs in a high
availability configuration.
9
Integrate NGFWs into Your Network
Considerations for Business Continuity
Your business continuity plan should include provisions for how to connect to critical devices,
including NGFWs and Panorama, during power outages and other events that prevent connecting
to those devices over normal communication channels. The ability to connect to and manage
devices on an out-of-band (OOB) network enables you to continue running your business
when primary networks and power sources are down. Business continuity should be a core
consideration of your network architecture.
An OOB network is a secure method of remotely accessing and managing devices and
does not use the primary communication channels. Instead, OOB networks use separate
communication channels that are always available if the primary channel fails and has
a different source of power than the primary network. Depending on your network
architecture, you may use both the primary network and the OOB network to access and
manage devices in day-to-day operation.
The OOB network should never rely on a power source or network that could fail concurrently
with the primary access network. How you architect OOB access to devices depends on your
network architecture and your business considerations, so there is no “one size fits all” method of
ensuring connectivity. However, there are guidelines that help you understand how to meet the
goals of an OOB access network:
• Power considerations—Use a different power source (a separate circuit or a protected or
battery-powered source) for the OOB network than you use for the regular access network. If
you lose power to the regular network, you won’t lose power to the OOB network.
Use power distribution unit (PDU) controls to remotely power devices on and off.
• Secure connection method—There are a number of ways to connect securely to an OOB
network, for example, a terminal server device, a modem, or a serial console server. Examples
of secure networks you can use for OOB access include LTE, dial-up, and broadband
(separated from the normal broadband network) networks. The connection method you use
depends on your business needs and network architecture.
Regardless of the method you select, the connection must be secure, with strong encryption
and authentication.
You can connect into an OOB network remotely using SSH with strong authentication over
an Ethernet LAN or you can dial in over a serial connection. The outbound connection will be
serial.
To get started with the initial set up and configuration of your NGFWs, click here.
NGFW Getting Started 10 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and
Configuration for NGFWs
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFWs No prerequisites needed for initial setup
Perform the initial configuration for your NGFW. You can perform these initial configuration
tasks either from the MGT interface, even if you do not plan to use this interface for your NGFW
management, or using a direct serial connection to the console port on the device.
The initial configurations need to be completed before you can begin onboarding your NGFW to
your management system of choice.
The initial configurations for your NGFWs can be performed before you have decided on
the management style of choice and will need to be done before you can proceed with
onboarding.
For more information about what needs to be done before you can onboard to Strata
Cloud Manager or Panorama, see the cheat sheet here.
By default, the PA-Series NGFW has:
An IP address of 192.168.1.1
A username/password of admin/admin
For security reasons, you must change these settings before continuing with other NGFW
configuration tasks.
• Standard
• Air Gapped
11
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
(Non-Air Gapped)
STEP 1 | Install your NGFW and connect power to it.
If your NGFW model has dual power supplies, connect the second power supply for
redundancy. Refer to the hardware reference guide for your model for details.
STEP 2 | Gather the required information from your network administrator.
• IP address and netmask (if the MGT port will have a static address)
• Default gateway (if the MGT port will have a static default gateway address)
• DNS server address
STEP 3 | Connect your computer to the NGFW.
You can connect to the device in one of the following ways:
• Connect a serial cable from your computer to the Console port and connect to the firewall
using terminal emulation software (9600-8-N-1). Wait a few minutes for the boot-up
sequence to complete; when the NGFW is ready, the prompt changes to the name of the
firewall, for example PA-220 login.
• Connect an RJ-45 Ethernet cable from your computer to the MGT port on the NGFW. From
a browser, go to https://192.168.1.1.
You may need to change the IP address on your computer to an address in the
192.168.1.0/24 network, such as 192.168.1.2, to access this URL.
STEP 4 | When prompted, log in to the NGFW.
You must log in using the default username and password (admin/admin). The NGFW will
begin to initialize.
NGFW Getting Started 12 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 5 | Set a secure username and password for the admin account.
The predefined, default administrator password (admin) must be changed on the first
login on a device. The new password must be a minimum of eight characters and
include a minimum of one lowercase and one uppercase character, as well as one
number or special character. Although you don’t have to configure a new username,
it is a best practice to do so and to use unique usernames and passwords for each
administrator. The login must include at least one alphabetical character or symbol
(underscore, period, or hyphen, although a hyphen cannot be the first character in the
username) and cannot be numbers only.
Be sure to use the best practices for password strength to ensure a strict password
and review the minimum password complexity.
1. Select Device > Administrators.
2. Select the admin role.
3. Enter the current default password and the new password.
4. Click OK to save your settings.
NGFW Getting Started 13 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 6 | Configure the MGT interface.
1. Select Device > Setup > Interfaces and edit the Management interface.
2. Set the Speed to auto-negotiate.
3. Specify the MTU in bytes for packets sent on this interface.
4. Select IPv4 or IPv6.
5. To configure IPv4 address settings for the MGT interface, select an address Type:
• Static— Enter the IP Address, Netmask, and Default Gateway.
• DHCP Client—To configure dynamic address settings, you must Configure the
Management Interface as a DHCP Client.
6. To configure IPv6 address settings for the MGT interface, Enable IPv6 and select an
address Type:
• Static— Enter the IPv6 Address/Prefix Length. Additionally, select a Default Gateway
Type: Static (enter the Default IPv6 Gateway Address) or Dynamic (the NGFW learns
NGFW Getting Started 14 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
the default gateway address from the Router Advertisement message that the router
sent).
• DHCP Client—To configure dynamic IPv6 address settings, you must Configure the
Management Interface for Dynamic IPv6 Address Assignment.
7. To prevent unauthorized access to the management interface, it is a an administrative
best practice to Add the Permitted IP Addresses from which an administrator can access
the MGT interface.
8. Select which management services to allow on the interface.
Make sure Telnet and HTTP aren't selected because these services use plaintext
and aren't as secure as the other services; they could compromise administrator
credentials.
9. Click OK.
NGFW Getting Started 15 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 7 | Specify the update server, and configure DNS settings and proxy server settings.
You must manually configure at least one DNS server on the NGFW or it won't be able
to resolve hostnames; it won't use DNS server settings from another source, such as an
ISP.
1. Select Device > Setup > Services.
• For multi-virtual system platforms, select Global and edit the Services section.
• For single virtual system platforms, edit the Services section.
2. On the Services tab, Update Server represents the IP address or host name of the
server from which to download updates from Palo Alto Networks. The current value is
NGFW Getting Started 16 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
updates.paloaltonetworks.com. Don't change this setting unless instructed by technical
support.
3. Select Verify Update Server Identity.
It's a best practice to enable this option, which causes the firewall or Panorama
to verify that the server from which the software or content package is
downloaded has an SSL certificate signed by a trusted authority.
4. For DNS, select the way for the MGT interface to get DNS services:
• Servers—Enter the Primary DNS Server address and Secondary DNS Server address.
• DNS Proxy Object—From the drop-down, select the DNS Proxy that you want to use
to configure global DNS services, or click DNS Proxy to configure a new DNS proxy
object.
Beginning with PAN-OS 11.2.1 and later releases, you can enable encrypted
DNS on the MGT interface (whether the interface uses a DNS server or DNS
proxy) by configuring DNS-over-HTTPS (DoH) or DNS-over-TLS (DoT).
• To configure encrypted DNS when the MGT interface uses DNS servers,
refer to the Networking Administrator's Guide, Use Case 1: Firewall
Requires DNS Resolution..
• To configure encrypted DNS when the MGT interface uses DNS proxy,
refer to the Networking Administrator's Guide, Configure a DNS Proxy
Object.
NGFW Getting Started 17 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
5. Click OK.
STEP 8 | Configure date and time (NTP) settings.
1. Select Device > Setup > Services.
• For multi-virtual system platforms, select Global and edit the Services section.
• For single virtual system platforms, edit the Services section.
2. On the NTP tab, to use the virtual cluster of time servers on the Internet, enter the
hostname pool.ntp.org as the Primary NTP Server or enter the IP address of your
primary NTP server.
3. (Optional) Enter a Secondary NTP Server address.
4. (Optional) To authenticate time updates from the NTP server(s), for Authentication
Type, select one of the following for each server:
• None—(Default) Disables NTP authentication.
• Symmetric Key—NGFW uses symmetric key exchange (shared secrets) to
authenticate time updates.
• Key ID—Enter the Key ID (1-65534).
• Algorithm—Select the algorithm to use in NTP authentication: MD5, SHA1, (PANOS 12.1.2 & later) SHA256, or SHA512.
• Autokey—NGFW uses autokey (public key cryptography) to authenticate time
updates.
5. Click OK.
STEP 9 | (Optional) Configure general NGFW settings as needed.
1. Select Device > Setup > Management and edit the General Settings.
2. Enter a Hostname for the NGFW and enter your network Domain name. The domain
name is just a label; it will not be used to join the domain.
3. Enter Login Banner text that informs users who are about to log in that they require
authorization to access the NGFW management functions.
As a best practice, avoid using welcoming verbiage. Additionally, you should ask
your legal department to review the banner message to ensure it adequately
warns that unauthorized access is prohibited.
4. Enter the Latitude and Longitude to enable accurate placement of the NGFW on the
world map.
5. Click OK.
NGFW Getting Started 18 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 10 | Commit your changes.
When the configuration changes are saved, you lose connectivity to the web interface
because the IP address has changed.
Click Commit at the top right of the web interface. The NGFW can take up to 90 seconds to
save your changes.
STEP 11 | Connect the NGFW to your network.
1. Disconnect the NGFW from your computer.
2. (All NGFWs except for the PA-5450) Connect the MGT port to a switch port on your
management network using an RJ-45 Ethernet cable. Make sure that the switch port you
cable the device to is configured for auto-negotiation.
3. (PA-5450 only) Connect the MGT port to a switch port on your management network
using a Palo Alto Networks certified SFP/SFP+ transceiver and cable.
STEP 12 | Open an SSH management session to the NGFW.
Using a terminal emulation software, such as PuTTY, launch an SSH session to the firewall
using the new IP address you assigned to it.
NGFW Getting Started 19 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 13 | Verify network access to external services required for NGFW management, such as the Palo
Alto Networks Update Server.
You can do this in one of the following ways:
• If you do not want to allow external network access to the MGT interface, you will need to
set up a data port to retrieve required service updates. Continue to Set Up Network Access
for External Services.
• If you do plan to allow external network access to the MGT interface, verify that you have
connectivity and then proceed to Register the NGFW and Activate Subscription Licenses.
1. Use update server connectivity test to verify network connectivity to the Palo Alto
Networks Update server as shown in the following example:
1. Select Device > Troubleshooting, and select Update Server Connectivity from the
Select Test drop-down.
2. Execute the update server connectivity test.
2. Use the following CLI command to retrieve information on the support entitlement for
the firewall from the Palo Alto Networks update server:
request support
check
If you have connectivity, the update server will respond with the support status for your
NGFW. If your firewall is not yet registered, the update server returns the following
message:
Contact Us
https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/company/contact-us.html
Support Home
https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/support/tabs/overview.html
Device not found on this update server
NGFW Getting Started 20 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
(Air Gapped)
The air gapped NGFW cannot connect to the Palo Alto Networks update server because an
outbound internet connection is required. To activate licenses, upgrade the PAN-OS software
version, and install dynamic content updates you must upload the relevant files to the air gapped
NGFW manually.
STEP 1 | Gather the required information from your network administrator.
Private IP address for the management (MGT) port
Netmask
Default gateway
DNS server address
NTP server address
STEP 2 | Install and power on the NGFW.
Review your NGFW hardware reference guide for details and best practices.
STEP 3 | Connect to the NGFW.
You must log in using the default admin username. You are immediately prompted to change
the default admin password before you can continue. The new password must be a minimum
of eight characters and include a minimum of one lowercase and one uppercase character, as
well as one number or special character.
You can connect to the NGFW in one of the following ways:
• Connect a serial cable from your computer to the Console port and connect to the device
using terminal emulation software (9600-8-N-1). Wait a few minutes for the boot-up
sequence to complete; when the NGFW is ready, the prompt changes to the name of the
NGFW, for example PA-220 login.
• Log in to the NGFW web interface by connecting an RJ-45 Ethernet cable from
your computer to the MGT interface on the NGFW. From a browser, go to
https://192.168.1.1.
You may need to change the IP address on your computer to an address in the
192.168.1.0/24 network, such as 192.168.1.2, to access this URL.
NGFW Getting Started 21 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 4 | (Best Practices) Disable Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP).
ZTP can only be disabled from the firewall CLI. The NGFW reboots after you disable ZTP.
Continue to the next steps after the NGFW has rebooted and you can log back in.
• PA-5400 Series, PA-3400 Series, PA-1400 Series, and PA-400 Series
admin> set system ztp disable
• All Other NGFWs
admin> request disable-ztp
STEP 5 | Configure the network settings for the air gapped NGFW.
The following commands set the interface IP allocation to static, configures the IP address
for the MGT interface, the Domain Name Server (DNS), and Network Time Protocol (NTP)
server.
admin> configure
admin# set deviceconfig system type static
admin# set deviceconfig system ip-address <IP-Address> netmask
 <Netmask-IP> default-gateway <Gateway-IP>
admin# set deviceconfig system dns-settings servers primary <IPAddress> secondary <IP-Address>
admin# set deviceconfig system ntp-servers primary-ntp-server ntpserver-address <IP-Address>
admin# set deviceconfig system ntp-servers secondary-ntp-server
 ntp-server-address <IP-Address>
NGFW Getting Started 22 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 6 | Register the NGFW with the Palo Alto Networks Customer Support Portal (CSP).
1. Log in to the Palo Alto Networks CSP.
2. Click Register a Device.
3. Select Register device using Serial Number and click Next.
4. Enter the required Device Information.
• Enter the NGFW Serial Number.
• Check (enable) Device will be used offline.
• Select the PAN-OS OS Release running on the NGFW.
5. Enter the required Location Information.
• Enter the City the NGFW is located in,
• Enter the Postal Code the NGFW is located in,
• Enter the Country the NGFW is located in.
6. Agree and Submit.
7. Skip this step when prompted to generate the optional Day 1 Configuration config
file.
STEP 7 | Download your NGFW license keys.
The license key files are required to activate your NGFW licenses when air gapped.
1. Log in to the Palo Alto Networks CSP.
2. Select Product > Devices and locate the NGFW you added.
3. Download all license keys files from the download links available License column.
You must download a license key file for each license you want to active on the NGFW.
STEP 8 | Activate the NGFW licenses.
1. Log in to the firewall web interface.
2. Select Device > Licenses and Manually upload license key.
Click Choose File to select the license key file you downloaded in the previous step and
click OK.
3. Repeat this step to uploaded and activate all licenses.
NGFW Getting Started 23 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 9 | (Optional) Configure general NGFW settings as needed.
1. Select Device > Setup > Management and edit the General Settings.
2. Enter a Hostname for the NGFW and enter your network Domain name. The domain
name is just a label; it will not be used to join the domain.
3. Enter Login Banner text that informs users who are about to log in that they require
authorization to access the NGFW management functions.
As a best practice, avoid using welcoming verbiage. Additionally, you should ask
your legal department to review the banner message to ensure it adequately
warns that unauthorized access is prohibited.
4. Enter the Latitude and Longitude to enable accurate placement of the device on the
world map.
5. Click OK.
6. Commit your changes.
STEP 10 | Upgrade the NGFW PAN-OS and dynamic content versions.
Review the PAN-OS Upgrade Guide and PAN-OS Release Notes for detailed information
about your target PAN-OS upgrade version.
1. Log in to the Palo Alto Networks CSP.
2. Download dynamic content updates.
1. Select Updates > Dynamic Updates.
2. Select the dynamic Content type you want to install.
3. Download the dynamic content update to your local device.
4. Repeat this step to download all required dynamic content updates.
3. Download a PAN-OS software update.
1. Select Updates > Software Updates.
2. For the Content type, select the NGFW model. For the Release type, select
All(default) or Preferred.
3. In the Download column, click the PAN-OS version to download the software image
to your local device.
4. Log in to the NGFW web interface.
5. Select Device > Dynamic Updates and Upload the dynamic content updates you
downloaded.
Repeat this step to Browse and select all the dynamic content release versions.
6. Install the dynamic content updates.
7. Select Device > Software and Upload the PAN-OS software image you download.
8. Install the PAN-OS software version.
The device needs to restart to finish installing the PAN-OS software upgrade.
NGFW Getting Started 24 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 11 | Connect the NGFW to your network.
1. Disconnect the device from your computer.
2. (All NGFWs except for the PA-5450) Connect the MGT port to a switch port on your
management network using an RJ-45 Ethernet cable. Make sure that the switch port you
cable the device to is configured for autonegotiation.
3. (PA-5450 only) Connect the MGT port to a switch port on your management network
using a Palo Alto Networks certified SFP/SFP+ transceiver and cable.
STEP 12 | Verify the air gapped NGFW connectivity.
1. Log in to the NGFW web interface.
2. Select Device > Troubleshooting.
3. Verify the NGFW can reach required internal devices.
1. For Select Test, select ping.
2. For the Host, enter an internal IP address to verify the NGFW can reach a device in
the air gapped network.
3. Click Execute and wait for the test to complete.
Click the Test Result when displayed to review the Result Detail to confirm
the firewall can successfully ping the internal device.
4. Repeat this step to verify the NGFW can reach all required internal devices.
4. Verify the NGFW cannot reach devices outside of the air gapped network.
1. For Select Test, select ping.
2. For the Host, enter an external IP address to verify the NGFW cannot reach devices
outside of the air gapped network.
3. Click Execute and wait for the test to complete.
Click the Test Result when displayed to review the Result Detail to confirm
the NGFW cannot ping the external device.
NGFW Getting Started 25 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Set Up Network Access for External Services
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFWs No prerequisites needed
By default, the NGFW uses the MGT interface to access remote services, such as DNS servers,
content updates, and license retrieval. If you do not want to enable external network access to
your management network, you must set up an in-band data port to provide access to required
external services and set up service routes to instruct the NGFW what port to use to access the
external services.
Do not enable management access from the internet or from other untrusted zones inside
your enterprise security boundary. Follow the Administrative Access Best Practices to
ensure that you are properly securing your NGFW.
This task requires familiarity with NGFW interfaces, zones, and policies. For more
information on these topics, see Configure Interfaces and Zones and Set Up a Basic
Security Policy.
STEP 1 | Decide which interface you want to use for access to external services and connect it to your
switch or router port.
The interface you use must have a static IP address.
STEP 2 | Log in to the NGFW web interface.
Using a secure connection (https) from your web browser, log in using the new IP address
and password you assigned during initial configuration (https://<IP address>). You will see a
certificate warning; that is okay. Continue to the web page.
STEP 3 | (Optional) The NGFW comes preconfigured with a default virtual wire interface between
ports Ethernet 1/1 and Ethernet 1/2 (and a corresponding default security policy and
zones). If you do not plan to use this virtual wire configuration, you must manually delete the
configuration to prevent it from interfering with other interface settings you define.
You must delete the configuration in the following order:
1. To delete the default security policy, select Policies > Security, select the rule, and click
Delete.
2. To delete the default virtual wire, select Network > Virtual Wires, select the virtual wire
and click Delete.
3. To delete the default trust and untrust zones, select Network > Zones, select each zone
and click Delete.
4. To delete the interface configurations, select Network > Interfaces and then select each
interface (ethernet1/1 and ethernet1/2) and click Delete.
5. Commit the changes.
NGFW Getting Started 26 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 4 | Configure the interface you plan to use for external access to management services.
1. Select Network > Interfaces and select the interface that corresponds to the interface
you cabled in Step 1.
2. Select the Interface Type. Although your choice here depends on your network
topology, this example shows the steps for Layer3.
3. On the Config tab, expand the Security Zone drop-down and select New Zone.
4. In the Zone dialog, enter a Name for new zone, for example Management, and then click
OK.
5. Select the IPv4 tab, select the Static radio button, and click Add in the IP section,
and enter the IP address and network mask to assign to the interface, for example
192.168.1.254/24. You must use a static IP address on this interface.
6. Select Advanced > Other Info, expand the Management Profile drop-down, and select
New Management Profile.
7. Enter a Name for the profile, such as allow_ping, and then select the services you want
to allow on the interface. For the purposes of allowing access to the external services,
you probably only need to enable Ping and then click OK.
NGFW Getting Started 27 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
These services provide management access to the NGFW, so only select the
services that correspond to the management activities you want to allow on this
interface. For example, don’t enable HTTP or Telnet because those protocols
transmit in plaintext and therefore aren’t secure. Or if you plan to use the MGT
interface for NGFW configuration tasks through the web interface or CLI, you
don’t enable HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, or Telnet so that you prevent unauthorized
access through the interface (if you must allow HTTPS or SSH in this scenario,
limit access to a specific set of Permitted IP Addresses). For details, see Use
Interface Management Profiles to Restrict Access.
8. To save the interface configuration, click OK.
STEP 5 | Configure the Service Routes.
By default, the NGFW uses the MGT interface to access the external services it requires. To
change the interface the NGFW uses to send requests to external services, you must edit the
service routes.
This example shows how to set up global service routes. For information on setting up
network access to external services on a virtual system basis rather than a global basis,
see Customize Service Routes to Services for Virtual Systems.
1. Select Device > Setup > Services > Global and click Service Route Configuration.
For the purposes of activating your licenses and getting the most recent content
and software updates, you will want to change the service route for DNS, Palo
Alto Networks Services, URL Updates, and AutoFocus.
2. Click the Customize radio button, and select one of the following:
• For a predefined service, select IPv4 or IPv6 and click the link for the service. To
limit the drop-down list for Source Address, select Source Interface and select the
NGFW Getting Started 28 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
interface you just configured. Then select a Source Address (from that interface) as
the service route.
If more than one IP address is configured for the selected interface, the Source
Address drop-down allows you to select an IP address.
• To create a service route for a custom destination, select Destination, and click Add.
Enter a Destination IP address. An incoming packet with a destination address that
matches this address will use as its source the Source Address you specify for this
service route. To limit the drop-down for Source Address, select a Source Interface. If
more than one IP address is configured for the selected interface, the Source Address
drop-down allows you to select an IP address.
3. Click OK to save the settings.
4. Repeat Steps 5.2 - 5.3 above for each service route you want to modify.
5. Commit your changes.
STEP 6 | Configure an external-facing interface and an associated zone and then create a security
policy rule to allow the NGFW to send service requests from the internal zone to the
external zone.
1. Select Network > Interfaces and then select the external-facing interface. Select Layer3
as the Interface Type, Add the IP address (on the IPv4 or IPv6 tab), and create the
NGFW Getting Started 29 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
associated Security Zone (on the Config tab), such as Internet. This interface must have a
static IP address; you do not need to set up management services on this interface.
2. To set up a security rule that allows traffic from your internal network to the Palo Alto
Networks update server, select Policies > Security and click Add.
As a best practice when creating Security policy rules, use application-based rules
instead of port-based rules to ensure that you are accurately identifying the underlying
application regardless of the port, protocol, evasive tactics, or encryption in use.
Always leave the Service set to application-default. In this case, create a security
policy rule that allows access to the update server (and other Palo Alto Networks
services).
STEP 7 | Create a NAT policy rule.
1. If you are using a private IP address on the internal-facing interface, you will need to
create a source NAT rule to translate the address to a publicly routable address. Select
Policies > NAT and then click Add. At a minimum you must define a name for the rule
(General tab), specify a source and destination zone, Management to Internet in this
case (Original Packet tab), and define the source address translation settings (Translated
Packet tab) and then click OK.
2. Commit your changes.
STEP 8 | Select Device > Troubleshooting and verify that you have connectivity from the data port
to the external services, including the default gateway, using the Ping connectivity test, and
NGFW Getting Started 30 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
the Palo Alto Networks Update Server using the Update Server Connectivity test. In this
example, the NGFW connectivity to the Palo Alto Networks Update Server is tested.
After you verify you have the required network connectivity, continue to Register the NGFW
and Activate Subscription Licenses.
1. Select Update Server from the Select Test drop-down.
2. Execute the Palo Alto Networks Update Server connectivity test.
3. Access the NGFW CLI, and use the following command to retrieve information on the
support entitlement for the NGFW from the Palo Alto Networks update server:
request support
check
If you have connectivity, the update server will respond with the support status for
your NGFW. Because your NGFW is not registered, the update server will return the
following message:
Contact Us
https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/company/contact-us.html
Support Home
https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/support/tabs/overview.html
Device not found on this update server
STEP 9 | (Optional) Install a Device Certificate if you plan to manage your NGFWs through Strata
Cloud Manager.
NGFW Getting Started 31 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 10 | (Optional) Setup Device Telemetry if you plan to manage your NGFWs through Strata Cloud
Manager.
1. Enable Strata Logging Service.
2. Navigate to Device > Setup > Telemetry.
3. In Telemetry Destination, select your region, if it is not automatically selected. If your
organization is using Strata Logging Service, you must use the region that your Strata
Logging Service is configured to use.
4. Click OK, and then commit your changes.
Beginning with PAN-OS 11.2.8 and later releases, the telemetry autoenablement
feature configures telemetry to be enabled by default on your devices. Upon
onboarding a new device (Panorama or firewall), telemetry is automatically enabled
with settings centrally controlled through Strata Cloud Manager. This centralized
approach ensures consistent telemetry settings across your entire environment.
NGFW Getting Started 32 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Cheat Sheet: Onboard NGFWs to Panorama or Strata
Cloud Manager
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW Onboarding Prerequisites:
Prerequisites for Strata Cloud Manager
Prerequisites for Panorama
Now that your initial setup and basic configuration are complete, the next optional step is
onboarding your NGFWs to a centralized management platform. The transition from individual
device management to a centralized management system significantly enhances your ability to
maintain consistent security policies, streamline administrative tasks, and gain comprehensive
visibility across your entire NGFW infrastructure. It also opens up the possibility of managing
your NGFWs alongside Prisma Access deployments. Whether you choose Strata Cloud Manager
for cloud-native management or Panorama for on-premises centralized control, onboarding
your NGFWs establishes the foundation for scalable security management, automated policy
deployment, and unified monitoring that grows with your organization's needs.
By following the comprehensive onboarding process, your NGFWs will be successfully
integrated into centralized management, providing the foundation for efficient, scalable security
administration across your network infrastructure.
You can find the detailed onboarding instructions in the respective product areas using this cheat
sheet and the links below.
Onboarding NGFWs to Strata Cloud Manager
Before beginning the NGFW onboarding process to Strata Cloud Manager, ensure you have:
• A valid Strata Cloud Manager license and account
• Initial configuration is complete
• Administrative access to your NGFWs web interface or CLI
• DNS resolution configured on your NGFW
• Device Certificate installed on your device
• Device Telemetry has been enabled
For more information and detailed instructions for the activation and onboarding process
for Strata Cloud Manager, click here.
Onboarding NGFWs to Panorama
Before beginning the NGFW onboarding process to Panorama, ensure you have:
• Panorama server is deployed and accessible
NGFW Getting Started 33 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
• Sufficient Panorama device licenses available
• Initial configuration is complete
• Administrative access to your NGFWs web interface or CLI
For more information and detailed instructions for the activation and onboarding process
for Panorama, click here.
NGFW Getting Started 34 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Segment Your Network for a Reduced Attack Surface
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFWs No prerequisites needed
Traffic must pass through the NGFW in order for the NGFW to manage and control it. Physically,
traffic enters and exits the NGFW through interfaces. The NGFW determines how to act on a
packet based on whether the packet matches a Security policy rule. At the most basic level, each
Security policy rule must identify where the traffic came from and where it is going.
On a Palo Alto Networks NGFWs, Security policy rules are applied between zones. A zone is
a grouping of interfaces (physical or virtual) that represents a segment of your network that is
connected to, and controlled by, the NGFW. Because traffic can only flow between zones if there
is a Security policy rule to allow it, this is your first line of defense. The more granular the zones
you create, the greater control you have over access to sensitive applications and data and the
more protection you have against malware moving laterally throughout your network.
For example, you might want to segment access to the database servers that store your
customer data into a zone called Customer Data. You can then define security policies that only
permit certain users or groups of users to access the Customer Data zone, thereby preventing
unauthorized internal or external access to the data stored in that segment.
The following diagram shows a very basic example of network segmentation using zones. The
more granular you make your zones (and the corresponding security policy rules that allows traffic
between zones), the more you reduce the attack surface on your network. This is because traffic
can flow freely within a zone (intra-zone traffic), but traffic cannot flow between zones (inter-zone
traffic) until you define a Security policy rule that allows it.
Additionally, an interface cannot process traffic until you have assigned it to a zone. Therefore,
by segmenting your network into granular zones you have more control over access to sensitive
applications or data and you can prevent malicious traffic from establishing a communication
channel within your network, thereby reducing the likelihood of a successful attack on your
network.
To start configuring zones and interfaces, click here.
Configure Interfaces and Zones
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW One of these licenses for Strata Cloud
Manager managed NGFWs:
Strata Cloud Manager Essentials
Strata Cloud Manager Pro
After you identify how you want to segment your network and the zones you will need to create
to achieve the segmentation (as well as the interfaces to map to each zone), you can begin
NGFW Getting Started 35 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
configuring the interfaces and zones on the NGFW. Configure interfaces on the NGFW to support
the topology of each part of the network you are connecting to. The following workflow shows
how to configure Layer 3 interfaces and assign them to zones. For details on integrating the
NGFW using a different type of interface deployments (for example as virtual wire interfaces or as
Layer 2 interfaces), see the Networking Administration guide.
For more information about Zones, click here.
The NGFW comes preconfigured with a default virtual wire interface between ports
Ethernet 1/1 and Ethernet 1/2 (and a corresponding default security policy and virtual
router). If you do not plan to use the default virtual wire, you must manually delete the
configuration and commit the change before proceeding to prevent it from interfering with
other settings you define. For instructions on how to delete the default virtual wire and its
associated security policy and zones, see Step 3 in Set Up Network Access for External
Services.
• PAN-OS & Panorama
• Strata Cloud Manager
Configure Interfaces and Zones (PAN-OS)
STEP 1 | Configure a default route to your Internet router.
1. Select Network > Virtual Router and then select the default link to open the Virtual
Router dialog.
2. Select the Static Routes tab and click Add. Enter a Name for the route and enter the
route in the Destination field (for example, 0.0.0.0/0).
3. Select the IP Address radio button in the Next Hop field and then enter the IP address
and netmask for your Internet gateway (for example, 203.0.113.1).
4. Click OK twice to save the virtual router configuration.
NGFW Getting Started 36 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 2 | Configure the external interface (the interface that connects to the Internet).
1. Select Network > Interfaces and then select the interface you want to configure. In this
example, we are configuring Ethernet1/8 as the external interface.
2. Select the Interface Type. Although your choice here depends on interface topology, this
example shows the steps for Layer3.
3. On the Config tab, select New Zone from the Security Zone drop-down. In the Zone
dialog, define a Name for new zone, for example Internet, and then click OK.
4. In the Virtual Router drop-down, select default.
5. To assign an IP address to the interface, select the IPv4 tab, click Add in the IP section,
and enter the IP address and network mask to assign to the interface, for example
203.0.113.23/24.
6. To enable you to ping the interface, select Advanced > Other Info, expand the
Management Profile drop-down, and select New Management Profile. Enter a Name for
the profile, select Ping and then click OK.
7. To save the interface configuration, click OK.
NGFW Getting Started 37 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 3 | Configure the interface that connects to your internal network.
In this example, the interface connects to a network segment that uses private IP
addresses. Because private IP addresses cannot be routed externally, you have to
configure NAT.
1. Select Network > Interfaces and select the interface you want to configure. In this
example, we are configuring Ethernet1/15 as the internal interface our users connect to.
2. Select Layer3 as the Interface Type.
3. On the Config tab, expand the Security Zone drop-down and select New Zone. In the
Zone dialog, define a Name for new zone, for example Users, and then click OK.
4. Select the same Virtual Router you used previously, default in this example.
5. To assign an IP address to the interface, select the IPv4 tab, click Add in the IP section,
and enter the IP address and network mask to assign to the interface, for example
192.168.1.4/24.
6. To enable you to ping the interface, select the management profile that you just created.
7. To save the interface configuration, click OK.
STEP 4 | Configure the interface that connects to your data center applications.
Make sure you define granular zones to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive
applications or data and eliminate the possibility of malware moving laterally within
your data center.
1. Select the interface you want to configure.
2. Select Layer3 from the Interface Type drop-down. In this example, we are configuring
Ethernet1/1 as the interface that provides access to your data center applications.
3. On the Config tab, expand the Security Zone drop-down and select New Zone. In the
Zone dialog, define a Name for new zone, for example Data Center Applications, and
then click OK.
4. Select the same Virtual Router you used previously, default in this example.
5. To assign an IP address to the interface, select the IPv4 tab, click Add in the IP section,
and enter the IP address and network mask to assign to the interface, for example
10.1.1.1/24.
6. To enable you to ping the interface, select the management profile that you created.
7. To save the interface configuration, click OK.
NGFW Getting Started 38 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 5 | (Optional) Create tags for each zone.
Tags allow you to visually scan policy rules.
1. Select Objects > Tags and Add.
2. Select a zone Name.
3. Select a tag Color and click OK.
STEP 6 | Save the interface configuration.
Click Commit.
STEP 7 | Cable the NGFW.
Attach straight through cables from the interfaces you configured to the corresponding switch
or router on each network segment.
STEP 8 | Verify that the interfaces are active.
Select Dashboard and verify that the interfaces you configured show as green in the Interfaces
widget.
Configure Interfaces and Zones (SCM)
Create an Interface
Interfaces serve as the fundamental building blocks of your firewall's network connectivity,
defining how traffic enters, exits, and flows through your security infrastructure. In Strata Cloud
Manager, you can create and configure various types of interfaces to match your specific network
architecture and deployment requirements, whether you're implementing network segmentation,
connecting to different network zones, or establishing connectivity between network segments.
Each interface type serves distinct purposes and operates at different layers of the network stack,
from simple traffic monitoring and forwarding to complex routing and switching functions.
The interface configuration determines how the firewall processes traffic, applies security policies,
and integrates with your existing network infrastructure. Choose the appropriate interface type
based on your network topology, traffic flow requirements, and the level of packet inspection and
processing needed for your deployment:
NGFW Getting Started 39 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
• Routing and Interfaces
• Configure a Layer 2 Interface
• Configure a Layer 2 Interface
Create a Zone
Assign one or more firewall interfaces to a zone to segment your network to control protection
for each zone individually.
STEP 1 | Log in to Strata Cloud Manager.
STEP 2 | Configure your NGFW interfaces.
STEP 3 | Select Configuration > NGFW and Prisma Access > Device Settings > Interfaces and select
the Configuration Scope where you want to create the zone.
You can select a folder or firewall from your Folders or select Snippets to configure the zone in
a snippet.
STEP 4 | Add Zone.
STEP 5 | Configure the zone.
1. Select the Interface Type.
Select Layer2 if you want to add Layer 2 interfaces to the zone or Layer 3 to add Layer 3
interfaces.
2. Add one or more interfaces to the zone.
3. (Optional) Select a Zone Protection Profile to specify how the firewall responds to
attack from this zone.
Select Create New to create a new Zone Protection Profile inline.
4. (Optional) Confirm you want to Enable Packet Buffer Protection.
This setting is enabled by default. The firewall applies Packet Buffer Protection to the
ingress zone only to protect the zone from DoS attacks and aggressive sessions and
sources.
5. (Optional) Enable User ID ACL.
This setting is disabled by default. When disabled, the firewall applies user mapping
information it discovers to all traffic of this zone for use in logs, reports, and policy rules.
When enabled, the firewall
6. (Optional) Enable Device ID ACL.
This setting is disabled by default.
STEP 6 | Save.
NGFW Getting Started 40 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Set Up a Basic Security Policy
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW One of these licenses for Strata Cloud
Manager managed NGFWs:
Strata Cloud Manager Essentials
Strata Cloud Manager Pro
Now that you defined some zones and attached them to interfaces, you are ready to begin
creating your Security Policy. The NGFW will not allow any traffic to flow from one zone to
another unless there is a Security policy rule that allows it. When a packet enters a NGFW
interface, the NGFW matches the attributes in the packet against the Security policy rules to
determine whether to block or allow the session based on attributes such as the source and
destination security zone, the source and destination IP address, the application, user, and the
service. The NGFW evaluates incoming traffic against the Security policy rulebase from left to
right and from top to bottom and then takes the action specified in the first Security rule that
matches (for example, whether to allow, deny, or drop the packet). This means that you must
order the rules in your Security policy rulebase so that more specific rules are at the top of the
rulebase and more general rules are at the bottom to ensure that the NGFW is enforcing policy as
expected.
Even though a Security policy rule allows a packet, this does not mean that the traffic is free of
threats. To enable the NGFW to scan the traffic that it allows based on a Security policy rule, you
must also attach Security Profiles—including URL Filtering, Antivirus, Anti-Spyware, File Blocking,
and WildFire Analysis—to each rule (the profiles you can use depend on which subscriptions
you purchased). When creating your basic Security policy, use the predefined security profiles
to ensure that the traffic you allow into your network is being scanned for threats. You can
customize these profiles later as needed for your environment.
Use the following workflows to set up a very basic Security policy that enables access to the
network infrastructure, to data center applications, and to the internet. This enables you to get
the NGFW up and running so that you can verify that you have successfully configured the
NGFW. However, this initial policy is not comprehensive enough to protect your network. After
you verify that you successfully configured the NGFW and integrated it into your network,
proceed with creating a best practice internet gateway security policy that safely enables
application access while protecting your network from attack.
• Strata Cloud Manager
• PAN-OS & Panorama
Set Up a Basic Security Policy (SCM)
For more information about setting up Security Policy Rules in Strata Cloud Manager, click here.
NGFW Getting Started 41 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 1 | Add a rule.
1. Select Configuration > NGFW and Prisma Access > Security Services > Security Policy
> Add Rule > Security Rule and select Pre-Rule and build your rule. Components marked
with an asterisk(*) are mandatory.
2. In the General tab, enter a descriptive Name for the rule.
3. Give a Description for your rule's intent.
4. Add a Tag to your rules to group them using keywords or phrases.
5. Limit a security rule to specific times using a Schedule.
STEP 2 | Define the matching criteria for the source fields in the packet.
1. In the Source tab, select a Source Zone.
2. Specify a Source IP Address or leave the value set to ny.
3. You can search for specific Usersor User Groups to enforce policy for individual users or
a group of users. Specify the match criteria that define which users and user groups.
• Sub string or partial string search is not supported for performance reasons.
• Entire string search is possible when delimiters such as space and hyphen is present.
• When number of users is more than 500 then string search use quotes with exact
string
STEP 3 | Define the matching criteria for the destination fields in the packet.
1. In the Destination tab, set the Zone.
2. Specify a Destination IP Address or leave the value set to any.
STEP 4 | Specify the application that the rule will allow or block.
1. In the Applications tab, Add the Application you want to safely enable. You can select
multiple applications or you can use application groups or application filters.
2. In the Service/URL Category tab, keep the service set to application-default to ensure
that any applications that the rule allows are allowed only on their standard ports. An
administrator can also use an existing App-ID signature and customize it to detect
proprietary applications or to detect specific attributes of an existing application. Custom
applications are defined in Objects > Applications
STEP 5 | (Optional) Specify a URL category as match criteria for the rule.
Select URL Category or Tenant Restriction to specify a specific TCP and/or UDP port number,
a URL category, a tenant restriction as match criteria in the security rule. If you select a
URL category, only web traffic will match the rule and only if the traffic is destined for that
specified category.
NGFW Getting Started 42 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 6 | Define what action you want the firewall to take for traffic that matches the rule.
In the Actions tab, select an Action.
• Allow
• Deny
• Drop
• Reset Client
• Reset Server
• Reset Both Client and Server
STEP 7 | Configure the log settings.
• By default, the rule is set to Log at Session End. You can disable this setting if you don’t
want any logs generated when traffic matches this rule or you can select Log at Session
Start for more detailed logging.
• Select a Log Forwarding profile.
STEP 8 | Attach security profiles to scan all allowed traffic for threats.
In Actions > Profile Group, select a Profile Group from the drop-down to attach to the rule.
STEP 9 | Select Save to save the security rule, then Push Config to your devices.
Set Up a Basic Security Policy (PAN-OS)
STEP 1 | (Optional) Delete the default Security policy rule.
By default, the NGFW includes a Security policy rule named rule1 that allows all traffic from
Trust zone to Untrust zone. You can either delete the rule or modify the rule to reflect your
zone-naming conventions.
NGFW Getting Started 43 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 2 | Allow access to your network infrastructure resources.
1. Select Policies > Security and click Add.
2. In the General tab, enter a descriptive Name for the rule.
3. In the Source tab, set the Source Zone to Users.
4. In the Destination tab, set the Destination Zone to IT Infrastructure.
As a best practice, use address objects in the Destination Address field to enable
access to specific servers or groups of servers only, particularly for services such
as DNS and SMTP that are commonly exploited. By restricting users to specific
destination server addresses, you can prevent data exfiltration and command
and control traffic from establishing communication through techniques such as
DNS tunneling.
5. In the Applications tab, Add the applications that correspond to the network services
you want to safely enable. For example, select dns, ntp, ocsp, ping, and smtp.
6. In the Service/URL Category tab, keep the Service set to application-default.
7. In the Actions tab, set the Action Setting to Allow.
8. Set Profile Type to Profiles and select the following security profiles to attach to the
policy rule:
• For Antivirus, select default
• For Vulnerability Protection, select strict
• For Anti-Spyware, select strict
• For URL Filtering, select default
• For File Blocking, select basic file blocking
• For WildFire Analysis, select default
9. Verify that Log at Session End is enabled. Only traffic that matches a Security policy rule
will be logged.
10. Click OK.
NGFW Getting Started 44 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 3 | Enable access to general internet applications.
This is a temporary rule that allows you to gather information about the traffic on
your network. After you have more insight into which applications your users need to
access, you can make informed decisions about which applications to allow and create
more granular application-based rules for each user group.
1. Select Policies > Security and Add a rule.
2. In the General tab, enter a descriptive Name for the rule.
3. In the Source tab, set the Source Zone to Users.
4. In the Destination tab, set the Destination Zone to Internet.
5. In the Applications tab, Add an Application Filter and enter a Name. To safely enable
access to legitimate web-based applications, set the Category in the application filter
to general-internet and then click OK. To enable access to encrypted sites, Add the ssl
application.
6. In the Service/URL Category tab, keep the Service set to application-default.
7. In the Actions tab, set the Action Setting to Allow.
8. Set Profile Type to Profiles and select the following security profiles to attach to the
policy rule:
• For Antivirus, select default
• For Vulnerability Protection, select strict
• For Anti-Spyware, select strict
• For URL Filtering, select default
• For File Blocking, select strict file blocking
• For WildFire Analysis, select default
9. Verify that Log at Session End is enabled. Only traffic that matches a security rule will be
logged.
10. Click OK.
NGFW Getting Started 45 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 4 | Enable access to data center applications.
1. Select Policies > Security and Add a rule.
2. In the General tab, Enter a descriptive Name for the rule.
3. In the Source tab, set the Source Zone to Users.
4. In the Destination tab, set the Destination Zone to Data Center Applications.
5. In the Applications tab, Add the applications that correspond to the network services
you want to safely enable. For example, select activesync, imap, kerberos, ldap, msexchange, and ms-lync.
6. In the Service/URL Category tab, keep the Service set to application-default.
7. In the Actions tab, set the Action Setting to Allow.
8. Set Profile Type to Profiles and select the following security profiles to attach to the
policy rule:
• For Antivirus, select default
• For Vulnerability Protection select strict
• For Anti-Spyware select strict
• For URL Filtering select default
• For File Blocking select basic file blocking
• For WildFire Analysis select default
9. Verify that Log at Session End is enabled. Only traffic that matches a security rule will be
logged.
10. Click OK.
STEP 5 | Save your policy rules to the running configuration on the NGFW.
Click Commit.
NGFW Getting Started 46 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 6 | To verify that you have set up your basic policies effectively, test whether your Security
policy rules are being evaluated and determine which Security policy rule applies to a traffic
flow.
For example, to verify the policy rule that will be applied for a client in the user zone with the
IP address 10.35.14.150 when it sends a DNS query to the DNS server in the data center:
1. Select Device > Troubleshooting and select Security Policy Match (Select Test).
2. Enter the Source and Destination IP addresses.
3. Enter the Protocol.
4. Select dns (Application)
5. Execute the Security policy match test.
NGFW Getting Started 47 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Assess Network Traffic
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW One of these licenses for Strata Cloud
Manager managed NGFWs:
Strata Cloud Manager Essentials
Strata Cloud Manager Pro
Maintaining optimal network health for your NGFWs is essential for ensuring robust security
posture, reliable performance, and operational efficiency across your infrastructure. Regular
assessment of NGFW health involves monitoring key performance indicators, analyzing system
resource utilization, reviewing hardware and software status, and evaluating traffic processing
capabilities to identify potential bottlenecks or security gaps before they impact your network.
By establishing comprehensive health monitoring practices, administrators can proactively
address issues such as high CPU utilization, memory constraints, interface congestion, and
policy inefficiencies while ensuring that security services like threat prevention, URL filtering,
and application identification continue to operate at peak effectiveness. Whether managing a
single firewall or a distributed security architecture, systematic health assessment provides the
visibility and insights necessary to optimize configuration settings, plan capacity requirements, and
maintain the high availability and performance standards that modern networks demand.
• Strata Cloud Manager
• PAN-OS & Panorama
Assess Network Traffic (SCM)
Now that you have a basic security policy, you can review the statistics and data in the Strata
Cloud Manager Command Center, Activity Insights, and its various dashboards.
Use this information to identify where you need to create more granular security policy rules:
Use the Command Center
In the Command Center, review the most used applications and the high-risk applications on
your network. The Command Center is a visualized overview of your network and security
infrastructure. It provides you with four different views, each with its own tracked data,
metrics, and actionable insights to examine and interact with.
Use Activity Insights
Activity Insights gives you an in-depth view of your network activities across Prisma Access
and NGFW deployments. Activity Insights unifies your network data such as network traffic,
application usage, threats, and user activities in one place.
NGFW Getting Started 48 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Evaluate Your Security Policy
You can use built-in security checks to evaluate the strength of your security rules and policy
and determine if any of the following is needed:
• Whether to allow web content based on schedule, users, or groups.
• Allow or control certain applications or functions within an application.
• Decrypt and inspect content.
• Allow but scan for threats and exploits.
• For information on refining your security policies and for attaching custom security profiles,
see how to create a security policy rule and security profiles.
For information on refining your security policies and for attaching custom security profiles,
see how to create a security policy rule and security profiles.
View Incidents
Strata Cloud Manager provides a unified incidents and alerts framework. In one place, view,
investigate, and address the alerts and incidents on your network, and jump to your logs to
examine the associated activity.
Monitor Your Network
Monitor the health and security of everything on your network, and use the IoC Search to
investigate the history of an artifact on your network and review global analysis findings. What
you can monitor depends on your active security subscriptions.
Assess Network Traffic (PAN-OS)
Now that you have a basic security policy, you can review the statistics and data in the
Application Command Center (ACC), traffic logs, and the threat logs to observe trends on your
network. Use this information to identify where you need to create more granular security policy
rules.
Use the Application Command Center and the automated correlation engine.
In the ACC, review the most used applications and the high-risk applications on your network.
The ACC graphically summarizes the log information to highlight the applications traversing
the network, who is using them (with User-ID enabled), and the potential security impact
of the content to help you identify what is happening on the network in real time. You can
then use this information to create appropriate security policy rules that block unwanted
applications, while allowing and enabling applications in a secure manner.
The Compromised Hosts widget in ACC > Threat Activity displays potentially compromised
hosts on your network and the logs and match evidence that corroborates the events.
NGFW Getting Started 49 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Determine what updates/modifications are required for your network security policy rules and
implement the changes.
For example:
• Evaluate whether to allow web content based on schedule, users, or groups.
• Allow or control certain applications or functions within an application.
• Decrypt and inspect content.
• Allow but scan for threats and exploits.
For information on refining your security policies and for attaching custom security profiles,
see how to create a security policy rule and security profiles.
View Logs.
Specifically, view the traffic and threat logs (Monitor > Logs).
Traffic logs are dependent on how your security policies are defined and set up to log
traffic. The Application Usage widget in the ACC, however, records applications and
statistics regardless of policy configuration; it shows all traffic that is allowed on your
network, therefore it includes the inter-zone traffic that is allowed by policy and the
same zone traffic that is allowed implicitly.
Configure Log Storage Quotas and Expiration Periods.
Review the AutoFocus intelligence summary for artifacts in your logs. An artifact is an item,
property, activity, or behavior associated with logged events on the NGFW. The intelligence
summary reveals the number of sessions and samples in which WildFire detected the artifact.
Use WildFire verdict information (benign, grayware, malware) and AutoFocus matching tags to
look for potential risks in your network.
AutoFocus tags created by Unit 42, the Palo Alto Networks threat intelligence team,
call attention to advanced, targeted campaigns and threats in your network.
From the AutoFocus intelligence summary, you can start an AutoFocus search for artifacts and
assess their pervasiveness within global, industry, and network contexts.
Monitor Web Activity of Network Users.
Review the URL filtering logs to scan through alerts, denied categories/URLs. URL logs are
generated when a traffic matches a security rule that has a URL filtering profile attached with
an action of alert, continue, override or block.
NGFW Getting Started 50 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
Enable Free WildFire Fowarding on Your NGFW
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW (Managed by PAN-OS) No prerequisites needed
WildFire is a cloud-based virtual environment that analyzes and executes unknown samples
(files and email links) and determines the samples to be malicious, phishing, grayware, or benign.
With WildFire enabled, a Palo Alto Networks NGFW can forward unknown samples to WildFire
for analysis. For newly-discovered malware, WildFire generates a signature to detect the
malware, which is made available for retrieval in real-time for all NGFWs with an active WildFire
subscription. This enables all Palo Alto next-generation NGFWs worldwide to detect and prevent
malware found by a single NGFW. Malware signatures often match multiple variants of the same
malware family, and as such, block new malware variants that the NGFW has never seen before.
The Palo Alto Networks threat research team uses the threat intelligence gathered from malware
variants to block malicious IP addresses, domains, and URLs.
A basic WildFire service is included as part of the Palo Alto Networks next-generation NGFW
and does not require a WildFire subscription. With the basic WildFire service, you can enable
the NGFW to forward portable executable (PE) files. Additionally, if you do not have a WildFire
subscription, but you do have a Threat Prevention subscription, you can receive signatures for
malware WildFire identifies every 24- 48 hours (as part of the Antivirus updates).
Beyond the basic WildFire service, a WildFire subscription is required for the NGFW to:
• Get the latest WildFire signatures in real-time.
• Prevent malicious PE (portable executables), ELF and MS Office files, and PowerShell and shell
scripts from entering your network in real-time using WildFire Inline ML.
• Forward advanced file types and email links for analysis.
• Use the WildFire API.
• Use a WildFire appliance to host a WildFire private cloud or a WildFire hybrid cloud.
If you have a WildFire subscription, go ahead and get started with WildFire to get the most out of
your subscription. Otherwise, take the following steps to enable basic WildFire forwarding:
STEP 1 | Confirm that your NGFW is registered and that you have a valid support account as well as
any subscriptions you require.
1. Log in to the Palo Alto Networks Customer Support Portal (CSP) and on the left-hand
side navigation pane, select Assets > Devices.
2. Verify that the NGFW is listed. If it is not listed, select Register New Device and
continue to register the NGFW.
3. (Optional) If you have a Threat Prevention subscription, be sure to Activate Subscription
Licenses.
NGFW Getting Started 51 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 2 | Log in to the NGFW and configure WildFire forwarding settings.
1. Select Device > Setup > WildFire and edit the General Settings.
2. Set the WildFire Public Cloud field to forward files to the WildFire global cloud (U.S.) at:
wildfire.paloaltonetworks.com.
You can also forward files to a WildFire regional cloud or a private cloud based
on your location and your organizational requirements.
3. Review the File Size Limits for PEs the NGFW forwards for WildFire analysis. set the
Size Limit for PEs that the NGFW can forward to the maximum available limit of 10 MB.
As a WildFire best practice, set the Size Limit for PEs to the maximum available
limit of 10 MB.
4. Click OK to save your changes.
STEP 3 | Enable the NGFW to forward PEs for analysis.
1. Select Objects > Security Profiles > WildFire Analysis and Add a new profile rule.
2. Name the new profile rule.
3. Add a forwarding rule and enter a Name for it.
4. In the File Types column, add pe files to the forwarding rule.
5. In the Analysis column, select public-cloud to forward PEs to the WildFire public cloud.
6. Click OK.
STEP 4 | Apply the new WildFire Analysis profile to traffic that the NGFW allows.
1. Select Policies > Security and either select an existing policy rule or create a new policy
rule as described in Set Up a Basic Security Policy.
2. Select Actions and in the Profile Settings section, set the Profile Type to Profiles.
3. Select the WildFire Analysis profile you just created to apply that profile rule to all traffic
this policy rule allows.
4. Click OK.
STEP 5 | Enable the NGFW to forward decrypted SSL traffic for WildFire analysis.
STEP 6 | Review and implement WildFire best practices to ensure that you are getting the most of
WildFire detection and prevention capabilities.
STEP 7 | Commit your configuration updates.
STEP 8 | Verify that the NGFW is forwarding PE files to the WildFire public cloud.
Select Monitor > Logs > WildFire Submissions to view log entries for PEs the NGFW
successfully submitted for WildFire analysis. The Verdict column displays whether WildFire
found the PE to be malicious, grayware, or benign. (WildFire only assigns the phishing verdict
to email links). The Action column indicates whether the NGFW allowed or blocked the
sample. The severity column indicates how much of a threat a sample poses to an organization
using the following values: critical, high, medium, low, information.
NGFW Getting Started 52 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
STEP 9 | (Threat Prevention subscription only) If you have a Threat Prevention subscription, but do
not have a WildFire subscription, you can still receive WildFire signature updates every 24-
48 hours.
1. Select Device > Dynamic Updates.
2. Check that the NGFW is scheduled to download, and install Antivirus updates.
NGFW Getting Started 53 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Perform the Initial Setup and Configuration for NGFWs
NGFW Getting Started 54 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed
Devices
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW (Managed by Strata Cloud
Manager)
One of these licenses:
Strata Cloud Manager Essentials
Strata Cloud Manager Pro
Setting up a NGFWs for Strata Cloud Manager management requires careful configuration
of essential device parameters to establish secure cloud connectivity and local management
capabilities.
General Settings Configuration
The initial setup begins with configuring fundamental device parameters including hostname,
domain settings, DNS servers, and NTP synchronization. These foundational elements ensure
proper device identification and time synchronization critical for logging, certificate validation, and
policy enforcement. Administrator accounts must be established with appropriate access levels,
while timezone and locale settings provide accurate event correlation.
Management and Auxiliary Interfaces
Network connectivity configuration focuses on the management interface setup, including IP
addressing, subnet configuration, and default gateway assignment. The management interface
serves as the primary channel for Strata Cloud Manager communication. Auxiliary interfaces may
be configured for out-of-band management or dedicated services. Proper VLAN tagging, interface
speeds, and duplex settings ensure reliable connectivity to cloud services.
Local Configuration Management
While Strata Cloud Manager provides centralized policy distribution, local configuration elements
remain device-specific. This includes emergency administrative access, local user authentication
fallback, and critical network settings that must persist independently of cloud connectivity.
Bootstrap configurations and device certificates facilitate initial cloud registration, while local
backup configurations ensure operational continuity during network disruptions or maintenance
windows.
55
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
Configure the Firewall General Settings
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW (Managed by Strata Cloud
Manager)
One of these licenses:
Strata Cloud Manager Essentials
Strata Cloud Manager Pro
After you successfully onboard your firewall to cloud management, you have the option to
configure and specify the general firewall management settings. Configuring the general settings
for a firewall isn’t required but is recommended. You can configure some or all of the firewall
general settings as needed.
STEP 1 | Log in to cloud management.
STEP 2 | Select Configuration > NGFW and Prisma Access > Device Settings > Device Setup >
Managementand select the Configuration Scope where you want to configure the general
settings.
You can select a folder or firewall from your Folders or select Snippets to configure the
general settings in a snippet.
STEP 3 | Click the cog wheel to edit the General Settings and Customize.
If you modified the General Settings for a nested folder or individual device, you
can Revert to Inherited to revert the General Settings configuration from the
Customized configuration to that inherited from the parent folder of the nester
folder or that inherited from the folder the firewall is associated with.
STEP 4 | Enter the network Domain domain name for the firewall (up to 31 characters).
STEP 5 | Enter text to display in the Login Banner on the firewall web interface login page (up to
3,200 characters).
(Optional) Check (enable) Force Admins to Acknowledge Login Banner to force administrators
to select I Accept and Acknowledge the Statement Below when logging in to the firewall web
interface. This forces local firewall admins to acknowledge the login banner before they can
log into the firewall web interface.
STEP 6 | Select or create a SSL/TSL Service Profile to specify a certificate and the SSL/TSL protocol
settings allowed on the management interface.
The firewall uses this certificate to authenticate to administrators who access the web
interface through the management (MGT) interface or through any other interface that
supports HTTP/HTTPS management traffic. If you select None, the firewall uses a predefined
certificate.
STEP 7 | Select the Time Zone where the firewall is located.
NGFW Getting Started 56 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
STEP 8 | Select the Locale where the firewall is located to specify the language for PDF reports
generated locally on the firewall.
STEP 9 | Enter the Latitude (-90.0 to 90.0) and Longitude (-180.0 to 180.0) of the firewall.
STEP 10 | Check (enable) Automatically Acquire Commit Lock to automatically apply a commit lock
when you change the candidate configuration.
Enable this setting so that other administrators can’t make configuration changes until
the first administrator commits their changes.
STEP 11 | Check (enable) Certificate Expiration Check to instruct the firewall to create a warning
message when on-device certificates approach their expiration date.
STEP 12 | (VM-Series firewall only) Check (enable) Use Hypervisor Assigned MAC Addresses to
have the VM-Series firewall use the MAC address that the hypervisor assigned, instead of
generating a MAC address using the PAN-OS custom schema.
STEP 13 | Check (enable) Tunnel Acceleration to improve performance and throughput for traffic going
through GRE tunnels, VXLAN tunnels, and GTP-U tunnels. This option is enabled by default.
If you disable or reenable Tunnel Acceleration and commit, you must reboot the
firewall.
STEP 14 | Save.
STEP 15 | Push Config to push your configuration changes.
NGFW Getting Started 57 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
Configure the Management Interface Settings
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW (Managed by Strata Cloud
Manager)
One of these licenses:
Strata Cloud Manager Essentials
Strata Cloud Manager Pro
Configure the management interfaces settings to establish the connection settings, allowed
services, and administrative access settings permitted over the management interface.
STEP 1 | Log in to Strata Cloud Manager.
STEP 2 | Select Configuration > NGFW and Prisma Access > Device Settings > Device Setup
> Management and select the Configuration Scope where you want to configure the
management interface settings.
You can select a folder or firewall from your Folders or select Snippets to configure the
management interface settings in a snippet.
STEP 3 | Click the cog wheel to edit the Management Interface Settings and Customize.
NGFW Getting Started 58 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
STEP 4 | Configure the management interface settings.
1. Set the Speed to auto-negotiate.
2. Specify the MTU in bytes for packets sent on this interface.
3. Configure the address settings for the MGT interface using one of the following
methods:
• To configure static IP address settings for the MGT interface, set the IP Type to Static
and enter the IP Address, Netmask, and Default Gateway.
• To dynamically configure the MGT interface address settings, set the IP Type to
DHCP Client.
To prevent unauthorized access to the management interface, it is a an
administrative best practice to Add the Permitted IP Addresses from which an
administrator can access the MGT interface.
4. Select which Administrative Management Services that you want to enable on the
interface in order to access the firewall web interface and CLI.
HTTP and HTTPS are the supported protocols to access the firewall web interface.
Telnet and SSH are supported protocols to access the firewall CLI.
Palo Alto Networks recommends enabling HTTPS and SSH for management
traffic on the interface rather than HTTP and Telnet. HTTP and Telnet both use
plaintext, which isn’t as secure as HTTPS and SSH.
5. Select the Network Services that you want to enable on the interface.
• HTTP OCSP—Configure the firewall as an Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)
responder.
• Ping—Test connectivity with external services. For example, you can ping the
interface to verify it can receive PAN-OS software and content updates from the Palo
Alto Networks Update Server.
In a high availability (HA) deployment, HA peers use ping to exchange heartbeat
backup information.
• SNMP—Process firewall statistics queries from an SNMP manager.
• User-ID—Enable data redistribution of user mappings among firewalls.
• User-ID Syslog Listener-SSL—Enable the PAN-OS integrated User-ID™ agent to
collect syslog messages over SSL.
• User-ID Syslog Listener-UDP—Enable the PAN-OS integrated User-ID agent to
collect syslog messages over UDP.
6. Add Permitted IP Addresses from which administrators can access the firewall through
the interface.
The list is empty by default. An empty Permitted IP Address list specifies that access is
available from an IP address.
To prevent unauthorized access, Palo Alto Networks recommends specifying
IP addresses that are allowed to access the firewall through the management
interface rather than leaving the Permitted IP Addresses empty.
NGFW Getting Started 59 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
STEP 5 | Save.
If the configuration you're trying to save doesn't meet the criteria to pass the
compliance check, you'll have the option to remediate the issue or override the
warning and save the configuration anyway.
STEP 6 | Push Config to push your configuration changes.
NGFW Getting Started 60 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
Configure the Auxiliary Interface Settings
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW (Managed by Strata Cloud
Manager)
One of these licenses:
Strata Cloud Manager Essentials
Strata Cloud Manager Pro
PA-5200 Series firewalls include two multipurpose auxiliary (Aux1 and Aux2) SFP+ ports that
can be configured for high availability (HA) and management functions. You can configure
the auxiliary interfaces settings to establish the connection settings, allowed services, and
administrative access settings permitted over the Aux1 and Aux2 interfaces.
STEP 1 | Log in to Strata Cloud Manager.
STEP 2 | Select Configuration > NGFW and Prisma Access > Device Settings > Device Setup >
Management and select the Configuration Scope where you want to configure the auxiliary
interface settings.
You can select a folder or firewall from your Folders or select Snippets to configure the
auxiliary interface settings in a snippet.
STEP 3 | Click the cog wheel to edit the Aux Interface Settings and Customize.
NGFW Getting Started 61 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
STEP 4 | Configure the auxiliary interface settings.
1. Enable Interface.
2. Assign an IPv4 or IPv6 IP Address to the interface.
3. Enter the Netmask.
4. Enter the Default Gateway IP address.
The gateway must be on the same subnet as the interface IP address.
5. Enter the MTU (maximum transmission unit) in bytes for packets sent on this interface.
Range is 576 to 1,500. Default is 1,500.
6. Select which Administrative Management Services that you want to enable on the
interface in order to access the firewall web interface and CLI.
HTTP and HTTPS are the supported protocols to access the firewall web interface.
Telnet and SSH are supported protocols to access the firewall CLI.
Palo Alto Networks recommends enabling HTTPS and SSH for management
traffic on the interface rather than HTTP and Telnet. HTTP and Telnet both use
plaintext, which isn’t as secure as HTTPS and SSH.
7. Select the Network Services that you want to enable on the interface.
• HTTP OCSP—Configure the firewall as an Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)
responder.
• Ping—Test connectivity with external services. For example, you can ping the
interface to verify it can receive PAN-OS software and content updates from the Palo
Alto Networks Update Server.
In a high availability (HA) deployment, HA peers use ping to exchange heartbeat
backup information.
• SNMP—Process firewall statistics queries from an SNMP manager.
• User-ID—Enable data redistribution of user mappings among firewalls.
• User-ID Syslog Listener-SSL—Enable the PAN-OS integrated User-ID™ agent to
collect syslog messages over SSL.
• User-ID Syslog Listener-UDP—Enable the PAN-OS integrated User-ID agent to
collect syslog messages over UDP.
8. Add Permitted IP Addresses from which administrators can access the firewall through
the interface.
The list is empty by default. An empty Permitted IP Address list specifies that access is
available from an IP address.
To prevent unauthorized access, Palo Alto Networks recommends specifying IP
addresses that are allowed to access the firewall through the auxiliary interface
rather than leaving the Permitted IP Addresses empty.
NGFW Getting Started 62 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
STEP 5 | Save.
If the configuration you're trying to save doesn't meet the criteria to pass the
compliance check, you'll have the option to remediate the issue or override the
warning and save the configuration anyway.
STEP 6 | Push Config to push your configuration changes.
NGFW Getting Started 63 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
Manage a Local Firewall Configuration
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW (Managed by Strata Cloud
Manager)
One of these licenses:
Strata Cloud Manager Essentials
Strata Cloud Manager Pro
The local configuration management feature eliminates the need for context switching from
central management to individual firewalls for managing local configurations. This feature
enhances readability, simplifies troubleshooting, and reduces manual effort by providing visibility
and control over local firewall configurations through Strata Cloud Manager. Additionally, it
identifies any conflicting or overridden objects between local and pushed configurations, making
it easier to troubleshoot.
STEP 1 | Log in to Strata Cloud Manager.
STEP 2 | Select Configuration > NGFW and Prisma Access > Overview and select the configuration
Scope.
NGFW Getting Started 64 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
STEP 3 | Select a folder or specific firewall from your Folders to view any conflicting configurations.
• Firewalls with config conflicts shows the number of firewalls with conflicts. View Conflicts
to see conflicts for all firewalls and their respective locations. Click the individual firewall to
further investigate device-level conflicts.
• Objects with config conflicts shows the number of conflicts per firewall. Click the number
to view the conflicted objects and their corresponding types specific to that firewall. Click
the object to get the granular details on the conflict.
• Select objects such as zones and interfaces to view any conflicts with the local device
configuration.
• Use the Show Config Diff option to compare configurations between the Strata Cloud
Manager and the firewall.
NGFW Getting Started 65 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Device Setup for Cloud Managed Devices
NGFW Getting Started 66 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
Effective resource management on NGFWs encompasses the entire lifecycle of the security
appliance, from initial registration through operational monitoring to eventual decommissioning.
The resource management process begins during implementation, where administrators must
register NGFWs with Palo Alto Networks to activate subscriptions, enable updates, and access
support services. This registration associates the NGFW's serial number with a customer account,
enabling features like threat intelligence updates and software upgrades while establishing the
device's identity within the support ecosystem.
During operational use, monitoring hardware resource consumption becomes essential for
maintaining security efficacy and performance. Administrators should regularly assess CPU
utilization, memory usage, session table capacity, and disk storage—particularly for logging and
reporting functions. Each hardware model has specific capacity limitations, and exceeding these
thresholds can trigger resource exhaustion, potentially causing packet drops, increased latency, or
security bypass. Implementing appropriate alerting thresholds for resource metrics provides early
warning of developing issues, while capacity planning helps ensure appropriate hardware sizing as
network traffic patterns and security requirements evolve.
The resource lifecycle concludes with proper decommissioning procedures when NGFWs reach
end-of-life or require replacement. Decommissioning involves several critical steps: backing up
configurations, securely erasing sensitive data through factory reset functions, unregistering
the device from support systems, and revoking any certificates or credentials associated with
the NGFW. For organizations with centralized management through Panorama or Strata Cloud
Manager, this process also includes removing the device from the management console and
ensuring that any shared policies or objects are properly migrated to replacement systems. Proper
decommissioning not only protects sensitive configuration data but also ensures accurate license
management and inventory tracking across the security infrastructure.
67
Manage Your NGFWs
Register Your NGFW
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
Before you can activate support and other licenses and subscriptions, you must first register the
NGFW. Before you can register a NGFW, though, you must first have an active support account.
Perform one of the following tasks depending on whether you have an active support account:
• If you don’t have an active support account, then Create a New Support Account and Register
a Next-Generation Firewall.
• If you already have an active support account, then you are ready to Register the NGFW.
• (Optional) Perform Day 1 Configuration on a registered NGFW.
• If your NGFW uses line cards such as an NPC (Network Processing Card), then Register the
NGFW Line Cards.
If you are registering a VM-Series NGFW, refer to the VM-Series Deployment Guide
for instructions.
Create a New Support Account and Register an NGFW
If you do not already have an active Palo Alto Networks support account, then you need to
register your NGFW when you create your new support account.
STEP 1 | Go to the Palo Alto Networks Customer Support Portal.
NGFW Getting Started 68 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 2 | Click Create my account.
STEP 3 | Enter Your Email Address, check I’m not a robot, and click Submit.
STEP 4 | Select Register device using Serial Number or Authorization Code and click Next.
NGFW Getting Started 69 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 5 | Complete the registration form.
1. Enter your contact details. Required fields are indicated by red asterisks.
2. Create a UserID and Password for the account. Required fields are indicated by red
asterisks.
3. Enter the Device Serial Number or Auth Code.
4. Enter your Sales Order Number or Customer Id.
5. To ensure that you are always alerted to the latest updates and security advisories,
Subscribe to Content Update Emails, Subscribe to Security Advisories, and Subscribe to
Software Update Emails.
6. Select the check box to agree to the End User Agreement and Submit.
Register an NGFW
If you already have an active Palo Alto Networks Customer Support account, perform the
following task to register your NGFW.
NGFW Getting Started 70 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 1 | Log in to the NGFW web interface.
Using a secure connection (HTTPS) from your web browser, log in using the new IP address
and password you assigned during initial configuration (https://<IP address>).
STEP 2 | Locate your serial number and copy it to the clipboard.
On the Dashboard, locate your Serial Number in the General Information section of the
screen.
STEP 3 | Go to the Palo Alto Networks Customer Support Portal and, if not already logged in, Sign In
now.
NGFW Getting Started 71 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 4 | Register the NGFW.
1. On the Support Home page, click Register a Device.
2. Select Register device using Serial Number or Authorization Code, and then click Next.
3. Enter the NGFW Serial Number (you can copy and paste it from the NGFW Dashboard).
4. (Optional) Enter the Device Name and Device Tag.
5. (Optional) If the device will not have a connection to the internet, select the Device will
be used offline check box and then, from the drop-down, select the OS Release you plan
to use.
6. Provide information about the physical location where you plan to deploy the NGFW
including the Address, City, Postal Code, and Country.
The physical location of the NGFW is set on the Customer Support Portal. There
is no command on the NGFW to set the physical location.
7. Select whether or not the device will be a part of the Enterprise Support Agreement. If
you select This device will be a part of the Enterprise Support Agreement, the device
is added to your ESA contract and is made visible on the ESA dashboard. From here,
NGFW Getting Started 72 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
you can monitor coverage and usage of the device as it pertains to your total hardware
estate.
You can remove a device from the Enterprise Agreement by visiting the
Enterprise Agreements dashboard.
8. Read the End User License Agreement (EULA) and the Support Agreement, then Agree
and Submit.
You can search for and manage the NGFW you just registered from the Network
Security page.
STEP 5 | (Firewalls with line cards) To ensure that you receive support for your NGFW’s line cards,
make sure to register the NGFW line cards.
(Optional) Perform Day 1 Configuration
After you register your NGFW, you have the option of running Day 1 Configuration. The Day
1 Configuration tool provides configuration templates informed by Palo Alto Networks best
practices, which you can use as a starting point to build the rest of your configuration.
The benefits of Day 1 Configuration templates include:
• Faster implementation time
• Reduced configuration errors
• Improved security posture
Perform Day 1 Configuration by following these steps:
NGFW Getting Started 73 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 1 | From the page that displays after you have registered your NGFW, select Run Day 1
Configuration.
If you’ve already registered your NGFW but haven’t run Day 1 Configuration, you can
also run it from the Customer Support Portal home page by selecting Tools > Run Day
1 Configuration.
STEP 2 | Enter the Hostname and Pan OS Version for your new device, and optionally, the Serial
Number and Device Type.
NGFW Getting Started 74 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 3 | Under Management, select either Static or DHCP Client for your Management Type.
Selecting Static will require you fill out the IPV4, Subnet Mask, and Default Gateway fields.
Selecting DHCP Client only requires that you enter the Primary DNS and Secondary DNS. A
device configured in DHCP client mode will ensure the management interface receives an IP
address from the local DHCP server, or it will fill out all the parameters if they are known.
STEP 4 | Fill out all fields under Logging.
STEP 5 | Click Generate Config File.
NGFW Getting Started 75 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 6 | To import and load the Day 1 Configuration file you just downloaded to your NGFW:
1. Log into your NGFW web interface.
2. Select Device > Setup > Operations.
3. Click Import named configuration snapshot.
4. Select the file.
Register the NGFW Line Cards
The following NGFWs use line cards that must be registered to receive support with
troubleshooting and returns:
• PA-7000 Series NGFWs
• PA-5450 NGFW
Return to these instructions after creating your Customer Support account and registering your
NGFW.
STEP 1 | Go to the Palo Alto Networks Customer Support Portal and, if not already logged in, Sign In
now.
STEP 2 | Select Assets > Line Cards/Optics/FRUs.
STEP 3 | Register Components.
STEP 4 | Enter the Palo Alto Networks Sales Order Number of the line cards into the Sales Order
Number field to display the line cards eligible for registration.
STEP 5 | Register the line cards to your NGFW by entering its chassis serial number in the Serial
Number field. The Location Information below auto-populates based on the registration
information of your NGFW.
STEP 6 | Click Agree and Submit to accept the legal terms. The system updates to display the
registered line cards under Assets > Line Cards/Optics/FRUs.
NGFW Getting Started 76 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
Manage Hardware Consumption
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
If you have an Enterprise Agreement, you can manage your PA-Series hardware consumption on
the Customer Support Portal.
To learn about managing hardware consumption on Strata Cloud Manager managed
NGFWs, click here.
STEP 1 | Log in to the Customer Support Portal.
NGFW Getting Started 77 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 2 | To view your consumption data, select Products > Enterprise Agreements > EA
Consumption Details.
To access the EA Consumption Details dashboard, your CSP account must either have
the Superuser or ELA Administrator role. You can update your role by contacting a
Superuser or Domain Administrator.
Based on the selected ELA or ESA, the summary at the top of the dashboard displays the
Current Registered Hardware Estate, Total Registered Firewalls, % Consumed (the percentage
of allowed estate used), and Total Allowed Hardware Estate Cap.
If you indicated at the time of purchase that you wish to decommission hardware,
there is a 60-day reminder below this summary.
The EA Consumption Details dashboard also displays a contract summary and a graph that
gives you more visibility into your hardware estate over a period of six months.
The ESA Contract Summary lists the following information:
• Total Allowed Hardware Estate Cap ($)—The maximum hardware estate (list price) covered
by the ELA including any growth allowance
NGFW Getting Started 78 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
• Current Registered Hardware Estate ($)—The registered hardware estate (list price)
currently covered by the EA Auth Code selected.
• Current Registered Hardware Estate (%) —The current registered estate as a percentage of
the hardware estate cap. The max value is 100%.
• Contract Start Date
• Contract End Date
Hovering the mouse over a point on the Peak ESA Consumption Graph shows hardware estate
information for the corresponding month. The graph displays the following details:
• Peak Units Registered—The maximum number of individual devices registered during the
month.
• Peak Registered Hardware Estate($)— The maximum amount of hardware estate registered
during the month.
• Total Allowed Hardware Estate Cap($)— The total hardware estate allowed for the month.
You can also download a CSV file with the consumption data for the account.
The Associated CSP Accounts and Consumption Breakdown Table at the bottom of the
dashboard lists your CSP accounts. Selecting a CSP ID displays all of the hardware registered
under that CSP ID. The table details the hardware Serial Number, PAN-OS Version (if
applicable), Purchase Date, Price, Asset Name, and End of Life date. You can optionally
decommission your hardware by selecting each hardware Model you want to decommission
and selecting Bulk Decommission.
To remove a product from the Enterprise Agreement, select the Model and then select
Request Transfer.
STEP 3 | To view your Enterprise Support Agreements (ESAs) and Enterprise License Agreements
(ELAs), select Products > Enterprise Agreements > Licenses. In this tab, you can review the
License Description of each Enterprise Agreement and its corresponding Expiration Date.
NGFW Getting Started 79 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
You can also select Activate Enterprise Agreement to enable a new Enterprise Agreement
using an authorization code.
STEP 4 | To review your transaction history, select Products > Enterprise Agreements > EA Contract
Details.
STEP 5 | To manage the assets, select Assets > NGFW.
STEP 6 | Manage assets through Account Actions.
You can take the following actions:
• Register Product—Register your new NGFW.
• Decommissioned Assets—View a list of assets you’ve decommissioned for your Enterprise
Agreement.
• Device Tags—Add new device tags or search for existing device tags.
• Download CSV—Download a CSV file of all the assets associated with the account.
• Incoming Transfers—Accept or Reject asset transfers to the account.
• Register Components—Add modules, line cards, optics, and other field replaceable units to
a NGFW chassis.
NGFW Getting Started 80 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
Decommission Your NGFW
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
Decommissioning NGFWs is a critical operational process that requires systematic planning and
execution to maintain security integrity and proper asset management. When NGFWs reach
end-of-life (EoL), undergo replacement, or are removed from service, administrators must follow
specific procedures to protect sensitive configuration data, ensure secure data destruction, and
properly update licensing and inventory systems.
The Customer Support Portal helps administrators determine which NGFW devices to
decommission. For example, you can refer to the Enterprise Agreements dashboard. Select
Products > Enterprise Agreements > EA Consumption Details to get a consolidated view of your
registered hardware and total estate cap. If you indicated at the time of purchase that you wish
to decommission hardware, there is a 60-day reminder on this page to do so. Another way to
identify devices to decommission is to view your EoL devices by selecting Products > Assets. If
you have an EoL device, an End-of-Life Alert is present on the page. From here, you can filter for
all EoL devices and plan for their decommissioning.
Two primary decommissioning methods and available to accommodate different operational
needs: Single Asset decommissioning for individual NGFW removals, which walks administrators
through a step-by-step process for safely retiring a specific device; and Bulk Asset
decommissioning for large-scale projects, allowing security teams to efficiently process multiple
NGFWs simultaneously when performing data center migrations, hardware refresh cycles, or
organizational restructuring. Both approaches ensure that sensitive data is securely erased,
support entitlements are properly adjusted, and the NGFWs are completely removed from
management systems like Panorama or Strata Cloud Manager, maintaining the integrity of the
remaining security infrastructure while properly concluding the asset life cycle.
Alternatively, you can decommission NGFWs directly from the EA Consumption Details
screen by checking the boxes next to the applicable hardware and selecting Bulk
Decommission.
• Single Asset
• Bulk Assets
Decommission Your NGFW (Single Asset)
Use the Asset Actions to decommission a single asset.
STEP 1 | Log in to the Customer Support Portal.
STEP 2 | Select Products > Assets > NGFW.
NGFW Getting Started 81 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 3 | Select Licenses/Subscriptions in Actions for the asset you want to decommission.
Review the asset details in the Licenses & Subscriptions panel.
STEP 4 | Decommission Asset.
STEP 5 | Select the reason to decommission the asset.
• Lost or stolen
• Customer Request
STEP 6 | Decommission the asset.
STEP 7 | Agree and Submit to decommission the assets listed.
Decommissioning assets is a permanent operation.
STEP 8 | View the decommissioned assets through Account Actions > Decommissioned Assets.
Decommission Your NGFW (Bulk)
STEP 1 | Log in to the Customer Support Portal.
NGFW Getting Started 82 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 2 | Select Products > Assets > NGFW.
STEP 3 | Select the assets you want to decommission.
STEP 4 | Decommission the selected assets.
Review the assets in the Bulk Decommission list.
NGFW Getting Started 83 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 5 | Bulk Decommission the assets.
STEP 6 | Agree and Submit to decommission the assets listed.
Decommissioning assets is a permanent operation.
STEP 7 | View the decommissioned assets through Account Actions > Decommissioned Assets.
NGFW Getting Started 84 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
Update NGFWs Managed by Strata Cloud Manager
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW (Managed by Strata Cloud
Manager)
Strata Cloud Manager Essentials
Strata Cloud Manager Pro
Group and schedule PAN-OS software and dynamic content updates for your firewalls:
Create a software update grouping rule so you can group sets of firewalls and schedule PANOS software upgrades for sets of firewalls. A firewall can only be associated with a single
software update grouping rule. When you create a new software update grouping rule, only
firewalls not already associated with an existing software update grouping rule are displayed as
Target Devices.
To ensure that you’re always protected from the latest threats, including those that haven’t
yet been discovered, you must ensure that you keep your firewalls up to date with the latest
content and software updates published by Palo Alto Networks.
To install the latest Antivirus, Applications and Threats, and WildFire dynamic content updates
on your firewalls, you can schedule a recurring update schedule to specify which dynamic
content update to install. A Dynamic Update schedule can be configured at the snippet, folder,
or firewall level. A Dynamic Update schedule created at the folder level is inherited by all
nested folders and associated firewalls but can be modified for the nested folder or individual
firewall.
Schedule a PAN-OS software update to upgrade or downgrade your firewalls to a target
PAN-OS version at a date and time of your choosing. Firewalls require an outbound internet
connection in order to successfully download and install the PAN-OS software version from
the Palo Alto Networks Update Server configured by default on the firewall. A software update
schedule is a one time event to schedule updates to a specific PAN-OS version and aren’t
reoccurring.
Create a Software Update Grouping Rule
STEP 1 | Log in to Strata Cloud Manager.
STEP 2 | Select Configuration > NGFW and Prisma Access > Setup, set the Configuration Scope to
All Firewalls, select Software Update > Software Update Grouping Rules, and Add Software
Upgrade Grouping Rule.
NGFW Getting Started 85 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 3 | Configure the General settings for software update grouping rule.
1. Enter a Name.
2. (Optional) Enter a Description for the software update grouping rule.
3. Specify the Position of the update upgrade grouping rule.
You can select Before or After an existing software update grouping rule. The position
of the software update grouping rule determines which firewalls are Target Devices.
Based on the rule position and Match Criteria, firewalls aren’t displayed as Target
Devices if they’re already associated with a rule positioned before the rule you’re
creating.
STEP 4 | Configure the Match Criteria to filter and specify target firewalls associated with the
software update grouping rule.
1. Specify the Folders the firewalls you want to target are associated with.
• Any (default)—Include all folders and the associated firewalls.
• Match—Select one or more folder names to match and include in the filtered target
firewalls.
• Exclude (Negate)—Select one or more folder names to match and exclude from the
filtered target firewalls.
2. Specify the firewall Models you want to target.
All supported NGFW models are listed and not just the firewall models associated with
the filtered Folders.
• Any (default)—Include all firewall models.
• Match—Select one or more firewall models to match and include in the filtered target
firewalls.
• Exclude (Negate)—Select one or more firewall models to match and exclude from the
filtered target firewalls.
3. Specify one or more firewall Label you want to target.
If you specify multiple labels, use the And, Or, and Not operators to further filter the
target firewalls.
4. (Optional) Exclude Devices from the list of Target Devices.
5. Review the list of Target Devices to confirm all the firewalls you want to include in
the software update grouping rule are included.
If not all the firewalls you want to include are listed, go back and modify the Match
Criteria until all the firewalls you want included are listed as Target Devices.
STEP 5 | Save.
STEP 6 | Schedule a Software Update.
Schedule Dynamic Content Updates
STEP 1 | Log in to Strata Cloud Manager.
NGFW Getting Started 86 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 2 | Select Configuration > NGFW and Prisma Access > Device Setup and set the Configuration
Scope to the NGFW or firewall folder where you want to create the Dynamic Updates
schedule.
You can select a folder or firewall from your Folders or select Snippets to configure the
Dynamic Update schedule in a snippet.
STEP 3 | Click the cog wheel to edit the Dynamic Update Scheduler and Customize.
If you modified the Dynamic Updates Scheduler for a nested folder or individual
device, you can Revert to Inherited to revert the Dynamic Updates Scheduler
configuration from the Customized configuration to that inherited from the parent
folder of the nester folder or that inherited from the folder the firewall is associated
with.
NGFW Getting Started 87 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 4 | Configure the Antivirus and Application and Threats dynamic content update schedule.
1. Configure the Recurrence the firewall checks for Antivirus and Application and Threats
dynamic content updates.
• None—No new dynamic content updates are retrieved or installed.
• (Application and Threats only) Every 30 Minutes—Firewall checks for new dynamic
content updates every 30 minutes and installs a new content update if available.
Specify how many Minutes Past Half-Hour the firewall should check for new dynamic
content updates (between 0 and 29).
• Hourly—Firewall checks for new content updates every hour and installs a new
dynamic content update if available.
Specify how many Minutes Past Hour the firewall should check for new dynamic
content updates (between 0 and 59).
• Daily—Firewall checks for new dynamic content updates every day and installs a new
dynamic content update if available.
Specify the Time of day the firewall should check for new dynamic content updates.
• Weekly—Firewall checks for new dynamic content updates every week and installs a
new dynamic content update if available.
Specify the Day and Time the firewall should check for new dynamic content updates.
2. Configure the Action the firewall takes when a new dynamic content update is available.
• None—Firewall doesn’t download or install the new dynamic content update.
• Download Only—Firewall only downloads the new dynamic content update but
doesn’t install.
If you select Download Only, you must log in to the firewall web interface and install
the dynamic content update.
• Download and Install—Firewall downloads and installs the new dynamic content
update.
3. Configure the dynamic content update Threshold.
This specifies the dynamic content update must be this many hours old in order for the
Action to be taken (between (1 and 336 hours).
4. (Application and Threats only) Configure the New App-ID Threshold.
This specifies the amount of time the firewall waits to install a dynamic content update
that contains a new App-ID (between (1 and 336 hours).
5. (HA only) Check (enable) Sync to Peer to also install the Antivirus and Application and
Threats dynamic content update on the firewall HA peer.
NGFW Getting Started 88 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 5 | Configure the WildFire dynamic content update schedule.
1. Configure the Recurrence the firewall checks for WildFire dynamic content updates.
• None—No new dynamic content updates are retrieved or installed.
• Every Minute—Firewall checks for new dynamic content updates every minute and
installs a new content update if available.
• Every 15 Minutes—Firewall checks for new dynamic content updates every 15
minutes and installs a new content update if available.
Specify how many Minutes Past Quarter-Hour the firewall should check for new
dynamic content updates (between 0 and 14).
• Every 30 Minutes—Firewall checks for new dynamic content updates every 30
minutes and installs a new content update if available.
Specify how many Minutes Past Half-Hour the firewall should check for new dynamic
content updates (between 0 and 29).
• Every Hour—Firewall checks for new content updates every hour and installs a new
dynamic content update if available.
Specify how many Minutes Past Hour the firewall should check for new dynamic
content updates (between 0 and 59).
2. Configure the Action the firewall takes when a new dynamic content update is available.
• None—Firewall doesn’t download or install the new dynamic content update.
• Download Only—Firewall only downloads the new dynamic content update but
doesn’t install.
If you select Download Only, you must log in to the firewall web interface and install
the dynamic content update.
• Download and Install—Firewall downloads and installs the new dynamic content
update.
3. (HA only) Check (enable) Synchronize content with HA peer after download/install to
also install the WildFire dynamic content update on the firewall HA peer.
STEP 6 | Save.
Schedule a Software Update
STEP 1 | Log in to Strata Cloud Manager.
STEP 2 | Create a Software Update Grouping Rule.
NGFW Getting Started 89 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 3 | Select Configuration > NGFW and Prisma Access > Setup, set the Configuration Scope to
All Firewalls, select Software Update > Schedules, and Add Schedule.
STEP 4 | Enter a Name.
STEP 5 | (Optional) Enter a Description.
STEP 6 | (Optional) Select the scope of the software upgrade:
Download-Install-Reboot to go through the full update process.
Download-Install to skip the reboot and avoid downtime.
Download to skip the installation and reboot and manage these manually.
Your NGFWs that have a pending reboot display a warning icon on the Device
Management (Workflows > NGFW Setup > Device Management) page. When you
hover over the warning icon, a tooltip appears indicating that a reboot is required to
complete the software upgrade process.
STEP 7 | Select the Timezone for the software install time.
STEP 8 | Specify the Software Install Time using the calendar tool to indicate the date and time you
want the PAN-OS software download and install to occur.
Apply the date and time you want the update to occur.
STEP 9 | (Optional) Check (enable) Download software in advanced to specify a date and time you
want the PAN-OS software version to be downloaded on the target firewalls.
Use the calendar tool to indicate the date and time you want the PAN-OS software version to
be downloaded before install and Apply. The date and time must occur before the Software
Install Time.
STEP 10 | Select the Target OS Version you want to update the firewall to.
(PAN-OS Software Downgrades only) If you’re downgrading to an older PAN-OS, you
must check (enable) Allow downgrade. The downgrade fails if this setting isn’t enabled.
STEP 11 | Select Device Grouping Rules to associate firewalls with the software update schedule.
You can select multiple device grouping rules to update multiple sets of firewalls.
NGFW Getting Started 90 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
STEP 12 | Save.
NGFW Getting Started 91 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Manage Your NGFWs
NGFW Getting Started 92 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
The following Palo Alto Networks subscriptions unlock certain NGFW features or enable the
NGFW to leverage a Palo Alto Networks cloud-delivered service (or both). Here you can read
more about each service or feature that requires a subscription to work with the NGFW. To
enable a subscription, you must first activate subscription licenses; once active, most subscription
services can use Dynamic Content Updates to provide new and updated functionality to the
NGFW.
Subscriptions You Can Use With the Firewall
Strata Cloud Manager Manage your Palo Alto Networks Next-Generation Firewalls
(NGFW) from Strata Cloud Manager. This cloud-delivered, AIpowered security solution allows seamless management of
your advanced ML-powered NGFWs, alongside Prisma Access
deployments, through a single, streamlined user interface.
Strata Cloud Manager has two licensing tiers: Strata Cloud
Manager Essentials and Strata Cloud Manager Pro. This
unified structure streamlines the deployment of network
security offerings, including AIOps for NGFW, Autonomous
Digital Experience Management (ADEM), cloud management
functionality, and Strata Logging Service.
• Get Started with Strata Cloud Manager
• Strata Cloud Manager License
IoT Security The IoT Security solution works with next-generation NGFWs
to dynamically discover and maintain a real-time inventory of
the IoT devices on your network. Through AI and machinelearning algorithms, the IoT Security solution achieves a
high level of accuracy, even classifying IoT device types
encountered for the first time. And because it’s dynamic, your
IoT device inventory is always up to date. IoT Security also
provides the automatic generation of policy recommendations
to control IoT device traffic, as well as the automatic creation
of IoT device attributes for use in NGFW policies.
• Get Started with IoT Security.
SD-WAN Provides intelligent and dynamic path selection on top of
the industry-leading security that PAN-OS software already
delivers. Managed by Panorama, the SD-WAN implementation
includes:
93
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
Subscriptions You Can Use With the Firewall
• Centralized configuration management
• Automatic VPN topology creation
• Traffic distribution
• Monitoring and troubleshooting
• Get Started with SD-WAN
Threat Prevention Threat Prevention provides:
• Antivirus, anti-spyware (command-and-control), and
vulnerability protection.
• Built-in external dynamic lists that you can use to secure
your network against malicious hosts.
• Ability to identify infected hosts that try to connect to
malicious domains.
• Get Started with Threat Prevention
Advanced Threat Prevention In addition to all of the features included with Threat
Prevention, the Advanced Threat Prevention subscription
provides an inline cloud-based threat detection and prevention
engine, leveraging deep learning models trained on high fidelity
threat intelligence gathered by Palo Alto Networks, to defend
your network from evasive and unknown command-andcontrol (C2) threats by inspecting all network traffic.
• Get Started with Advanced Threat Prevention
DNS Security Provides enhanced DNS sinkholing capabilities by querying
DNS Security, an extensible cloud-based service capable of
generating DNS signatures using advanced predictive analytics
and machine learning. This service provides full access to
the continuously expanding DNS-based threat intelligence
produced by Palo Alto Networks.
To set up DNS Security, you must first purchase and install a
Threat Prevention license.
• Get Started with DNS Security
Advanced DNS Security In addition to all of the features included with DNS Security,
the Advanced DNS Security subscription provides access to
the Advanced DNS Security cloud, which operates cloudbased domain detection engines that inspect changes to DNS
responses. This enables NGFWs to detect and categorize
hijacked and misconfigured domains in real-time to block
malicious activity.
• Get Started with Advanced DNS Security
NGFW Getting Started 94 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
Subscriptions You Can Use With the Firewall
URL Filtering Provides the ability to not only control web-access, but how
users interact with online content based on dynamic URL
categories. You can also prevent credential theft by controlling
the sites to which users can submit their corporate credentials.
To set up URL Filtering, you must purchase and install a
subscription for the supported URL filtering database, PANDB. With PAN-DB, you can set up access to the PAN-DB
public cloud or to the PAN-DB private cloud.
URL Filtering is no longer available as a standalone
subscription. All URL Filtering features are included
with the Advanced URL Filtering subscription.
• Get Started with URL Filtering
Advanced URL Filtering Advanced URL Filtering uses a cloud-based ML-powered web
security engine to perform ML-based inspection of web traffic
in real-time. This reduces reliance on URL databases and outof-band web crawling to detect and prevent advanced, fileless web-based attacks including targeted phishing, webdelivered malware and exploits, command-and-control, social
engineering, and other types of web attacks.
• Get Started with Advanced URL Filtering
WildFire Although basic WildFire® support is included as part of the
Threat Prevention license, the WildFire subscription service
provides enhanced services for organizations that require
immediate coverage for threats, frequent WildFire signature
updates, advanced file type forwarding (APK, PDF, Microsoft
Office, and Java Applet), as well as the ability to upload files
using the WildFire API. A WildFire subscription is also required
if your NGFWs will be forwarding files to an on-premise
WF-500 appliance.
• Get Started with WildFire
Advanced WildFire Advanced WildFire is a subscription offering that provides
access to Intelligent Run-time Memory Analysis: a cloud-based
advanced analysis engine that complements static and dynamic
analysis, to detect and prevent evasive malware threats. By
leveraging a cloud-based detection infrastructure, Intelligent
Run-time Memory Analysis detection engines operate a wide
array of detection mechanisms to target these highly-evasive
malware.
• Get Started with Advanced WildFire
NGFW Getting Started 95 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
Subscriptions You Can Use With the Firewall
AutoFocus Provides a graphical analysis of NGFW traffic logs and
identifies potential risks to your network using threat
intelligence from the AutoFocus portal. With an active
license, you can also open an AutoFocus search based on logs
recorded on the NGFW.
• Get Started with AutoFocus
Strata Logging Service Provides cloud-based, centralized log storage and aggregation.
The Strata Logging Service is required or highly-recommended
to support several other cloud-delivered services, including
Cortex XDR, IoT Security, and Prisma Access, and Traps
management service.
• Get Started with Strata Logging Service
GlobalProtect Gateway Provides mobility solutions and/or large-scale VPN capabilities.
By default, you can deploy GlobalProtect portals and gateways
(without HIP checks) without a license. If you want to use
advanced GlobalProtect features (HIP checks and related
content updates, the GlobalProtect Mobile App, IPv6
connections, or a GlobalProtect Clientless VPN) you will need
a GlobalProtect Gateway license for each gateway.
• Get Started with GlobalProtect
Virtual Systems This is a perpetual license, and is required to enable support
for multiple virtual systems on PA-3200 Series NGFWs. In
addition, you must purchase a Virtual Systems license if you
want to increase the number of virtual systems beyond the
base number provided by default on PA-400 Series, PA-3400
Series, PA-5200 Series, PA-5400 Series, and PA-7000 Series
NGFWs (the base number varies by platform). The PA-220 and
PA-800 Series NGFWs do not support virtual systems.
(PAN-OS 11.1.2 and earlier releases)The multiple virtual
systems are not supported on VM- Series NGFWs.
(PAN-OS 11.1.3 and later releases)The multiple virtual systems
are supported on VM-Series NGFWs.
• Get Started with Virtual Systems
Enterprise Data Loss
Prevention (DLP)
Provides cloud-based protection against unauthorized access,
misuse, extraction, and sharing of sensitive information.
Enterprise DLP provides a single engine for accurate detection
and consistent policy enforcement for sensitive data at rest
and in motion using machine learning-based data classification,
hundreds of data patterns using regular expressions or
keywords, and data profiles using Boolean logic to scan for
collective types of data.
NGFW Getting Started 96 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
Subscriptions You Can Use With the Firewall
• Get Started with Enterprise DLP
SaaS Security Inline The SaaS Security solution works with Strata Logging Service
to discover all of the SaaS applications in use on your network.
SaaS Security Inline can discover thousands of Shadow IT
applications and their users and usage details. SaaS Security
Inline also enforces SaaS policy rule recommendations
seamlessly across your existing Palo Alto Networks NGFWs.
App-ID Cloud Engine (ACE) also requires SaaS Security Inline.
• Get Started with SaaS Security Inline
NGFW Getting Started 97 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
Activate Subscription Licenses
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
Follow these steps to activate a new license on the NGFW.
The Decryption Mirroring feature requires you to activate a free license to unlock feature
functionality. For those features, you should instead follow the steps to activate a free license for
Decryption features.
STEP 1 | Install the device certificate on your NGFW.
• Install the device certificate for standalone NGFW
• Install the device certificate for NGFW (Managed by Panorama or Strata Cloud Manager)
Palo Alto Networks uses the device certificate to authentication the NGFW and allows the
NGFW to connect to cloud services such as Advanced WildFire, Advanced Threat Prevention,
Advanced Advanced DNS Security, Advanced URL Filtering, and more. This is required to
successfully use any Palo Alto Networks cloud service.
STEP 2 | Locate the activation codes for the licenses you purchased.
When you purchased your subscriptions you should have received an email from Palo Alto
Networks customer service listing the activation code associated with each subscription. If you
cannot locate this email, contact Customer Support to obtain your activation codes before you
proceed.
STEP 3 | Activate your Support license.
You will not be able to update your PAN-OS software if you do not have a valid Support
license.
1. Log in to the web interface and then select Device > Support.
2. Click Activate support using authorization code.
3. Enter your Authorization Code and then click OK.
STEP 4 | Activate each license you purchased.
Select Device > Licenses and then activate your licenses and subscriptions in one of the
following ways:
• Retrieve license keys from license server—Use this option if you activated your license on
the Customer Support portal.
• Activate feature using authorization code—Use this option to enable purchased
subscriptions using an authorization code for licenses that have not been previously
NGFW Getting Started 98 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
activated on the support portal. When prompted, enter the Authorization Code and then
click OK.
• Manually upload license key—Use this option if your NGFW does not have connectivity to
the Palo Alto Networks Customer Support Portal. In this case, you must download a license
key file from the support site on an internet-connected computer and then upload to the
NGFW.
To automate activation using the Customer Support Portal API, see the process to
Activate Licenses. This process works for both the hardware and VM-Series NGFWs.
STEP 5 | Verify that the license is successfully activated
On the Device > Licenses page, verify that the license is successfully activated. For example,
after activating the WildFire license, you should see that the license is valid:
STEP 6 | (WildFire, Advanced URL Filtering, and DNS Security subscriptions only) Commit
configuration changes to complete subscription activation.
After activating a WildFire, Advanced URL Filtering, or DNS Security subscription license, a
commit is required for the NGFW to begin processing their corresponding traffic and data
types based on the security profile configurations. You should:
• Commit any pending changes. If you do not have pending changes, which prevents you
from committing any configuration updates, you can: issue a commit force command
through the CLI or make an update that writes to the candidate configuration, which
enables the commit option.
Use the following CLI configuration mode command to initiate a commit force:
username@hostname> configure
Entering configuration mode
[edit]
username@hostname# commit force
A commit force bypasses some of the validation checks that normally occur with a
normal commit operation. Make sure your configuration is valid and is semantically
and syntactically correct before issuing a commit force update.
• WildFire only Check that the WildFire Analysis profile rules include the advanced file types
that are now supported with the WildFire subscription. If no change to any of the rules is
required, make a minor edit to a rule description and perform a commit.
NGFW Getting Started 99 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
What Happens When Licenses Expire?
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
Palo Alto Networks subscriptions provide the NGFW with added functionality and/or access to
a Palo Alto Networks cloud-delivered service. When a license is within 30 days of expiration, a
warning message displays in the system log daily until the subscription is renewed or expires.
Upon license expiration, some subscriptions continue to function in a limited capacity, and others
stop operating completely. Here you can find out what happens when each subscription expires.
The precise moment of license expiry is at the beginning of the following day at 12:00 AM
(GMT). For example, if your license is scheduled to end on 1/20 you will have functionality
for the remainder of that day. At the start of the new day on 1/21 at 12:00 AM (GMT),
the license will expire. All license-related functions operate on Greenwich Mean Time
(GMT), regardless of the configured time zone on the NGFW.
(Panorama license) If the support license expires, Panorama can still manage NGFWs
and collect logs, but software and content updates will be unavailable. The software and
content versions on Panorama must be the same as or later than the versions on the
managed NGFWs, or else errors will occur. For details, see Panorama, Log Collector,
Firewall, and WildFire Version Compatibility.
Subscription Expiry Behavior
Advanced Threat
Prevention / Threat
Prevention
Alerts appear in the System Log indicating that the license has
expired.
You can still:
• Use signatures that were installed at the time the license
expired, unless you install a new Applications-only content
update either manually or as part of an automatic schedule.
If you do, the update will delete your existing threat
signatures and you will no longer receive protection against
them.
• Use and modify Custom App-ID™ and threat signatures.
You can no longer:
• Install new signatures.
• Roll signatures back to previous versions.
• Detect and prevent unknown threats using real-time, MLbased detection engines provided by Advanced Threat
Prevention.
DNS Security You can still:
NGFW Getting Started 100 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
Subscription Expiry Behavior
• Use local DNS signatures if you have an active Threat
Prevention license.
You can no longer:
• Get new DNS signatures.
Advanced URL Filtering /
URL Filtering
You can still:
• Enforce policy using custom URL categories.
You can no longer:
• Get updates to cached PAN-DB categories.
• Connect to the PAN-DB URL filtering database.
• Get PAN-DB URL categories.
• Analyze URL requests in real-time using advanced URL
filtering.
WildFire You can still:
• Forward PEs for analysis.
• Get signature updates every 24-48 hours if you have an
active Threat Prevention subscription.
You can no longer:
• Get five-minute updates through the WildFire public and
private clouds.
• Forward advanced file types such as APKs, Flash files,
PDFs, Microsoft Office files, Java Applets, Java files (.jar
and .class), and HTTP/HTTPS email links contained in
SMTP and POP3 email messages.
• Use the WildFire API.
• Use the WildFire appliance to host a WildFire private cloud
or a WildFire hybrid cloud.
AutoFocus You can still:
• Use an external dynamic list with AutoFocus data for a
grace period of three months.
You can no longer:
• Access the AutoFocus portal.
• View the AutoFocus Intelligence Summary for Monitor log
or ACC artifacts.
Strata Logging Service You can still:
NGFW Getting Started 101 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
Subscription Expiry Behavior
• Access the stored data for a 30-day grace period provided
for license renewal, after which the data is deleted.
You can no longer:
• Ingest data to Strata Logging Service during 30 day grace
period.
• Forward logs to Strata Logging Service during 30-day grace
period.
GlobalProtect You can still:
• Use the app for endpoints running Windows and macOS.
• Configure single or multiple internal/external gateways.
You can no longer:
• Access the Linux OS app and mobile app for iOS, Android,
Chrome OS, and Windows 10 UWP.
• Use IPv6 for external gateways.
• Run HIP checks.
• Use Clientless VPN.
• Enforce split tunneling based on destination domain, client
process, and video streaming application.
VM-Series See the VM-Series Deployment Guide.
Support You can no longer:
• Receive software updates.
• Download VM images.
• Benefit from technical support.
NGFW Getting Started 102 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
Enhanced Application Logs for Palo Alto Networks
Cloud Services
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW
The NGFW can collect data that increases visibility into network activity for Palo Alto Networks
apps and services, like Cortex XDR and Internet of Things (IoT) Security. These Enhanced
Application logs are designed strictly for Palo Alto Networks apps and services to consume and
process; you cannot view Enhanced Application logs on the NGFW or Panorama. Only NGFWs
sending logs to the logging service can generate Enhanced Application logs.
Enabling Enhanced Application Logging (EAL) can cause undesired logging behavior,
such as the generation of URL Filtering logs for traffic to allowed categories. This can
impact storage capacity and performance. Disable EAL to reduce undesired logs.
Follow these procedures to enable log forwarding of Enhanced Application logs for Cortex XDR
and IoT Security:
Cortex XDR
The types of data that Enhanced Application logs gather include records of DNS queries, the
HTTP header User Agent field that specifies the web browser or tool used to access a URL, and
information about DHCP automatic IP address assignment. With DHCP information, for example,
Cortex XDR™ can alert on unusual activity based on hostname instead of IP address. This allows
the security analyst using Cortex XDR to meaningfully assess whether the user’s activity is within
the scope of their role, and if not, to more quickly take action to stop the activity.
To benefit from the most comprehensive set of Enhanced Application logs, enable User-ID;
deployments for the Windows-based User-ID agent and the PAN-OS integrated User-ID agent
both collect some data that is not reflected in the NGFW User-ID logs but that is useful toward
associating network activity with specific users.
To start forwarding Enhanced Application logs to the Strata Logging Service, turn on Enhanced
Application Logging (EAL) globally, and then enable it on a per-security rule basis (using a Log
Forwarding profile). The global setting is required and captures data for traffic that is not sessionbased (ARP requests, for example). The per-security policy rule setting is strongly recommended;
the majority of Enhanced Application logs are gathered from the session-based traffic that your
Security policy rules enforce.
STEP 1 | Enhanced Application Logging requires a Strata Logging Service subscription. User-ID is also
recommended. Here are steps to get started with Strata Logging Service and enable User-ID.
NGFW Getting Started 103 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
STEP 2 | To Enable Enhanced Application Logging on the NGFW, select Device > Setup >
Management > Cloud Logging and edit Settings.
NGFW Getting Started 104 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
STEP 3 | Continue to enable EAL in the Security policy rules that control the traffic into which you
want extended visibility.
1. Select Objects > Log Forwarding and Add or modify a Log Forwarding profile.
2. Update the profile to Enable enhanced application logs in cloud logging (including traffic
and url logs).
Notice that when you enable EAL in a Log Forwarding profile, match lists that specify the
log types required for EAL are automatically added to the profile.
3. Click OK to save the profile and continue to update as many profiles as needed.
4. Ensure that the Log Forwarding profile that you’ve updated is attached to a Security
policy rule, to trigger log generation and forwarding for the traffic matched to the rule.
1. To view the profiles attached to each Security policy rule, select Policies > Security.
2. To update the Log Forwarding profile attached to a rule, Add or edit a rule and select
Policies > Security > Actions > Log Forwarding and select the Log Forwarding profile
enabled with EAL.
IoT Security
One part of the NGFW setup for IoT Security involves creating a Log Forwarding profile and
applying it to Security policy rules. Although you can apply a profile to each rule individually,
a simpler approach is to select a predefined Log Forwarding profile and apply it to as many
rules as you like in bulk. The following steps explain this approach to adding the predefined Log
Forwarding profile to Security policy rules in bulk.
NGFW Getting Started 105 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
To use this workflow, you must have already configured security policy rules, enabled
logging on the rules, and enabled logging services with Enhanced Application Logging
(EAL).
NGFW Getting Started 106 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
STEP 1 | Apply a Log Forwarding profile for IoT Security to Security policy rules.
1. Log in to your next-generation NGFW and select Policies > Log Forwarding for Security
Services in the Policy Optimizer section.
2. To view all your Security policy rules—including those with a Log Forwarding profile and
those without—choose All for Log Forwarding Profile.
3. Select the rules for which you want to forward logs to the logging service.
4. Attach Log Forwarding Profile at the bottom of the page.
5. To apply the default Log Forwarding profile to your rules, choose IoT Security Default
Profile - EAL Enabled and OK.
The default profile is preconfigured to provide IoT Security with all the log types it requires,
including Enhanced Application logs.
You don’t have to Enable Enhanced IoT Logging because EAL is already enabled on
the IoT Security Default Profile.
NGFW Getting Started 107 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
NGFW Compatible Subscriptions
or
To forward Enhanced Application logs to an existing Log Forwarding profile that doesn’t
already have it, choose it from the Log Forwarding Profile list, select Enable Enhanced IoT
Logging and then OK.
When you Enable Enhanced IoT Logging, PAN-OS updates the chosen Log
Forwarding profile itself and thereby enables enhanced log forwarding on all rules
that use the same Log Forwarding profile.
PAN-OS adds the chosen Log Forwarding profile to those rules that don’t already have one
and replaces previously assigned profiles with this one.
STEP 2 | Commit your changes.
NGFW Getting Started 108 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
Best Practices for Getting Started
with NGFWs
Where Can I Use This? What Do I Need?
• NGFW (Managed by PAN-OS or
Panorama)
Now that you have integrated the NGFW into your network and enabled the basic security
features, you can begin configuring more advanced features. Here are some things to consider
next:
Follow the Adminstrative Access Best Practices to make sure you are properly securing the
management interfaces.
Configure a best-practice security policy rulebase to safely enable applications and protect
your network from attack. Go to the Best Practices page and select security policy best
practice for your NGFW deployment.
Set up High Availability—High availability (HA) is a configuration in which two NGFWs are
placed in a group and their configuration and session tables are synchronized to prevent a
single point to failure on your network. A heartbeat connection between the NGFW peers
ensures seamless failover in the event that a peer goes down. Setting up a two-NGFW cluster
provides redundancy and allows you to ensure business continuity.
Enable User Identification (User-ID)—User-ID is a Palo Alto Networks next-generation NGFW
feature that allows you to create policies and perform reporting based on users and groups
rather than individual IP addresses.
Enable Decryption—Palo Alto Networks NGFWs provide the capability to decrypt and inspect
traffic for visibility, control, and granular security. Use decryption on a NGFW to prevent
malicious content from entering your network or sensitive content from leaving your network
concealed as encrypted or tunneled traffic.
Follow the Best Practices for Securing Your Network from Layer 4 and Layer 7 Evasions.
Share Threat Intelligence with Palo Alto Networks —Permit the NGFW to periodically collect
and send information about applications, threats, and device health to Palo Alto Networks.
Telemetry includes options to enable passive DNS monitoring and to allow experimental test
signatures to run in the background with no impact to your security policy rules, NGFW logs, or
NGFW performance. All Palo Alto Networks customers benefit from the intelligence gathered
from telemetry, which Palo Alto Networks uses to improve the threat prevention capabilities of
the NGFW.
109
Best Practices for Getting Started with NGFWs
NGFW Getting Started 110 ©2026 Palo Alto Networks, Inc.
